By Emmanuel Oloniruha Still battling to put its pieces together, the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) , has launched an attack on the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), describing it as confused. APC also picked hole in the national apology tendered by PDP early in the week, describing it as feeble and unacceptable until looted funds were returned. PDP which is still battling leadership crisis since its ouster in 2015, said on Tuesday that the confusion in National Executive Committee (NEC) further exposed the raging impunity, primitive impositions and other undemocratic tendencies in APC. PDP which tendered a public apology early in the week for running the country aground, said that it was clear that the APC went into a chaotic mode following the renewed interest of Nigerians in the rebranded PDP. PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the confusion in APC directly explained why the country had been in shambles in the last three years. “There is no way a party which cannot conduct its affairs in a democratic norm will be able to function in government. “We are therefore not surprised that President Muhammadu Buhari went back to his party’s NEC and ordered members to reverse earlier decisions, which they had claimed conformed with the provisions of their constitution. “It is amazing that a party, which boasts of belonging to the progressive bent, does not even understand its own rules or the applications thereof. “In one breath, the party sought the elongation of tenure for its officials and then in another breath it reversed itself. “Nigerians are no longer at loss as to the reasons for failure of governance, policy summersaults and gross incompetence that have brought our nation to its knees in the last three years.” Ologbondiyan urged all democrats still the APC to immediately exit and join other good-spirited Nigerians in the rebranded and repositioned PDP to make life better for Nigerians. The Minister of Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, had earlier attacked PDP for tendering a shallow apology Nigerians for the massive looting of the nation’s treasury. Mohammed called on the PDP to go the whole hog with its apology to Nigerians by returning all the funds looted from the public treasury under its watch during its 16 years in power. Mohammed, also challenged PDP to show the genuineness of its apology through a discernible change of attitude. ”The PDP presided over an unprecedented looting of the public treasury, perhaps the worst of its kind in Nigeria or anywhere else in the world. “Therefore, the best evidence of penitence for such a party is not just to own up and apologize, but to also return the looted funds. Anything short of that is mere deceit,” Mohammed said. (NAN)