 By Abiodun Esan The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) says no corps member serving in Kwara died in any auto crash in Oke-Ose, Ilorin. The NYSC Public Relations Officer (PRO) in Kwara, Oladipo Morakinyo  refuted the allegation  in a press release in Ilorin on Sunday. He said, “The attention of the NYSC State Secretariat, located in Ilorin,Kwara State has been drawn to a  false information being circulated by  an online media about the death of a corps member in an auto crash. “The management of the scheme in Kwara State wishes to counter the news and also set the records  right that no corps member was involved or died in the said accident. ” According to Morakinyo, the rumour that a corps member died alongside some students of  Kwara State Polytechnic , along Oke-Ose road, Ilorin, is false. He said that immediately the State Coordinator, Mr Amaefule Reminiscent, got wind of the false news on Thursday, he dispatched the corps welfare officer and the Ilorin  East Local Government Inspector to investigate the matter. Mlorakinyo said  that the two NYSC officials visited the scene of the accident and the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital’s morgue, where the corpses of the accident victims were deposited. The PRO  said that the findings by the  two  NYSC confirmed that none of the deceased was a corps member. “As a follow up, on Friday morning, the Assistant Director, Corps Welfare and Health Services  in the state, also led a team of NYSC officials to the Divisional Police Station, Oke- Ose, where the accident case was being  handled. “The investigation  at the station revealed the correct identities  of the victims and none of the five was a corps member,” Morakinyo said. The PRO  said that the State Coordinator, Mr Amaefule Reminiscent,  appealed to the press, especially online media,  to always ascertain their facts  before publishing news about the scheme. The state coordinator prayed  that the good Lord would  continue to preserve thousands of the nation’s  youths, diligently serving their fatherland in every nook and  cranny  of the country.(NAN)