Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane fired Liverpool into second place in the Premier League with a 2-0 victory against Newcastle. They are now a point ahead of Manchester United, who will meet relegation threatened  Crystal Palace on Monday. Tottenham also cemented their top four berth as Son Heung-Min inspired a 2-0 win over Huddersfield on Saturday. Salah struck in the 40th minute at Anfield to maintain his superb form in his first season with Liverpool following his move from Roma. The Egypt winger took Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s pass and shot low under Martin Dubravka for his 32nd goal of the season and his eighth in his last seven appearances. Liverpool took complete control 10 minutes after half-time when Roberto Firmino drove at the heart of the Newcastle defence, playing in Senegal winger Mane, who claimed his 14th goal of the season with a clinical finish. A fourth win in their last five league games took Jurgen Klopp’s side one point above Manchester United, who drop to third but can regain second spot with a win at Crystal Palace on Monday. Leaders Manchester City sit 15 points clear of Liverpool and host Chelsea on Sunday. Newcastle are two points above the bottom three after their first defeat in five matches. At Wembley, Son put Tottenham ahead in the 27th minute with his 14th goal of the season as Dele Alli’s pass sliced open the Huddersfield defence and the South Korea forward raced clear to finish emphatically. Son struck again in the 54th minute, timing his run perfectly to meet Harry Kane’s cross with a bullet header past Huddersfield goalkeeper Jonas Lossl. Fourth-placed Tottenham’s third successive league win lifted them five points clear of fifth-placed Chelsea in the race to qualify for next season’s Champions League via a top-four finish. “I hope I can score many more goals for Tottenham. The manager has to choose 11 players. I try my best and try to be ready at all times,” Son said. “The pass from Harry Kane was very good for me, it made it easy to score. We feel comfortable at Wembley, we know how we play here.” Swansea climbed out of the relegation zone and pushed West Ham deeper into trouble with a 4-1 win at the Liberty Stadium. South Korea midfielder Ki Sung-Yueng drove a 20-yarder past West Ham goalkeeper Adrian in the eighth minute for only his second goal of the season. Other Scores: Leicester 1 -1 AFC Bournemouth Burnley 2-1 Everton Southampton 0-0 Stoke City Watford 1-0 West Bromwich Albion