Former French president Nicolas Sarkozy was charged with corruption and illegal campaign financing on Wednesday over allegations that the late Libyan dictator Muammar Gaddafi helped fund his 2007 election campaign. After four years of investigation and two days of questioning the rightwinger in police custody, judges looking into France’s most explosive political scandal decided they had enough evidence to charge the 63-year-old, the AFP reported. The combative one-term president, who served from 2007-2012, was charged with corruption, illegal campaign financing and concealment of Libyan public money, the source added. He returned home Wednesday after being placed under court supervision. Sarkozy will have six months to appeal the decision, which he is likely to do, and the judges will have to make a further decision about whether they have sufficient proof to take the case to trial. Sarkozy has been charged in two other cases which have dogged him since he left office. He was first taken into custody in the Nanterre suburb west of Paris on Tuesday morning before returning for another grilling on Wednesday morning. Since 2013, investigators have been looking into claims by several figures in Gaddafi’s  ousted regime, including his son Saif al-Islam, that Sarkozy was on the take in 2007 from the man he helped topple four years later. He is already charged in two other cases — one relating to a system of fake invoices devised to mask overspending on his failed 2012 election campaign, the other for alleged influence peddling involving a judge. His right-wing Republicans party has so far given Sarkozy unanimous backing, but there are signs of unease among some senior conservatives who fear the fallout of the latest episode involving their former leader. Brice Hortefeux, a Sarkozy ally who was a top minister during his presidency, was also questioned Tuesday. “Mr Hortefeux again assured that there was no financing from Libya or any foreign country,” his lawyer Jean-Yves Dupeux told AFP. In 2011, as NATO-backed forces were driving Gaddafi out of power, Saif al-Islam told the Euronews network that “Sarkozy must first give back the money he took from Libya to finance his electoral campaign.” Sarkozy has dismissed the allegations as the rantings of vindictive Libyan regime members who were furious over France’s military intervention in Libya that helped end Kadhafi’s 41-year rule and led to his death. Investigating magistrates have recommended that Sarkozy face trial on separate charges of illegal campaign financing over his failed 2012 re-election bid. The former French leader has also sued the investigative website Mediapart, which has led media coverage of the Libyan allegations since 2012 and published a document allegedly signed by Libya’s intelligence chief showing that Gaddafi had agreed to fund Sarkozy to the tune of 50 million euros ($62 million). The case drew heightened scrutiny in November 2016 when a Franco-Lebanese businessman admitted delivering three cash-stuffed suitcases from the Libyan leader in 2006 and 2007 as contributions towards Sarkozy’s first presidential run.