By EricJames Ochigbo The Igala Vanguard, a sociocultural group on Saturday urged the Governor of Kogi State, Mr Yahaya Bello to immortalise late Prince Abubakar Audu. Audu is a former governor, for his contributions to the development of the state who also contested the last governorship election but died before the results were announced. In a statement signed by the Convener of the group, Mr Lawrence Akpa, the group said that the late statesman lived, worked and laid down his life for the Kogi project. According to the group, the late Audu was in his lifetime a pride to the Igala kingdom and a strong promoter of a united and progressive Kogi. The group stated that Audu also contributed immensely to the growth and development of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and democracy in the state. The group said that the victory at the 2015 state governorship polls was a reflection of the people’s confidence in late Audu’s leadership style. The group said that the former governor laboured for the emancipation of the state and where it was inevitable, he paid with his dear life. “Unfortunately, this act of patriotism has not being recognized by the present state government under Yahaya Bello. “The idea of naming the Kogi State University after the former governor was sabotaged to make ensure the legacies of the late visionary leader are diminished. “Our memory of Audu is that of a strong charismatic politician who fought for the emancipation of the people. “He is also a strict disciplinarian who wouldn’t condone any form of executive rascality or nefarious activity. “The Igala nation will not forget the man who paid the supreme price that Kogi may be reckoned with across the globe,” the group said. The Igala Vanguard urged Governor Bello to tap into the good ideas of the late statesman and consolidate on them. In a separate statement, the group urged Governor Bello and Sen. Dino Melaye (Kogi-APC) to put an end to the ongoing disagreement between them as it was becoming embarrassing to the state. The group urged the leaders to put aside their differences and concentrate on good governance promised the electorates in their party manifesto. According to the group, rural dwellers want good access roads, jobs, drinkable water; students want steady academic calendars just as patients want a functional hospitals and state workers want regular payment of salaries. They urged the leaders to work in synergy with other elected officials for the development of the state which would be a legacy for up coming generations. The group canvassed support for the victims of the deadly Kogi attacks allegedly carried out by herdsman saying that the survivors are left without camps or relief material to cushion the effects. “Is time that the governor engages Dino through competition in infrastructural development, Kogites are tired of the battle of who is who in Kogi State,” it stated.