World No. 1 Roger Federer has booked a rematch with 21 year-old South Korean Next Gen Champion, Chung Hyeon in the quarter finals of the BNP Paribas Open. The match will take place at 3am Nigerian time on Friday. Both  met in January at the semi-finals of  Australian Open. The 36 year-old Federer won and went ahead to win the championship,   his 20th Grand Slam. Federer qualified for the  ATP Indian Wells Masters  quarters on Wednesday. after he defeated Frenchman Jeremy Chardy in two straight sets  7-4 6-4. His next familiar opponent  had beaten 12 seeded Tomas Berdych in the second round.  Chung  defeated 30th-seeded Pablo Cuevas 6-1, 6-3 earlier on Wednesday to make the quarters. Federer, who also won at Rotterdam in February, is gunning for a record sixth Indian Wells title. It is his best beginning to the season since 2006 when he started 16-0 and won 33 of his first 34 matches. “It has been great. But it is a totally different year, and so many years after,” he said. For so many years I have felt good actually in Australia. “I don’t know if it’s Australia per se or, taking the benefits from the hard work I put into the new season.” “Yeah, and then also Rotterdam was great. I was very happy that I was able to win the tournament there, not just get to the semis and get world No. 1. “And here now I’m relieved that I was able to win three matches already. Because in a big, tough draw like here at Indian Wells, you’re never quite sure what to expect. “So I’m just happy I’m on a good run.” The defending Indian Wells champion Federer put on a serving clinic against Chardy as he hit two aces and won 100 percent of his first serve points. He dropped just three serve points overall with those coming on his second serve. Federer only needed to break Chardy once in each set to get the win in 82 minutes. The first break of serve came in the 11th game of the opening set to take a 6-5 lead. In the second set he broke Chardy in the ninth game to lead 5-4. Each time he got the break he then served for the set. Federer clinched the victory on the first match point when Chardy pounded a forehand into the net. 