By Frank Shedrack/Christian Ogbonna Some leaders from South, West and Middle Belt at a rally on Saturday restated their call for the restructuring of Nigeria. The leaders are from South-South, South-West and the South East and Middle Belt influential have reiterated the need to restructure the country. The mega rally was organised by Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) in Yenagoa, where they jointly announced their resolve to work together for the realisation of the goal. They contended that restructuring was the best solution to the current challenges confronting the nation. President General, Igbo Apex Organisation, Ohanaeze, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who said he was in support of restructuring, stated that such move would go a long way to better the lives of all Nigerians. “What we mean by restructuring is fair treatment and justice; restructuring is a called for new Nigeria, which will enhance unity and justice of the people. “Our people need unity, equity and justice as citizens; restructuring implies the structural and a physical paradigm of Nigeria to give all sections a sense of belonging,” Nwodo said. Dr Bala Takaya, President of Middle Belt Forum, who decried the level of security challenges in the country, stressed the need for restructuring of the nation. According to him, the alliance between the Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt is for inclusive Nigeria to effect the restricting of the Nation to a federal system of government, where each and every federating unit shall hold equal and coordinate powers. He said: “We hereby, invite fellow Nigerians, desirous of equity, fairness and justice in the affairs of our dear country to join us in the task of moving the country forward. “Our desire and commitment is that our dear country may resume her delayed journey towards the fulfilment of its manifest destiny,” Takaya said. In his remark, Chief Edwin Clark, Leader of Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), said the leaders of the region were strongly in support of the move for restructuring of the nation. According to Clark, “nobody is more important than any other person in this country, every Nigerian is equal and all we are asking for is fair treatment for all citizens.’’ Chief Ayo Adebayo, leader of Pan-Yoruba socio-political group, said Afenifere also supported the move to restructure the country The host and Bayelsa Governor, Seriake Dickson, commended his guests and their renewed call for restructuring of the nation. “We gathered here in Bayelsa, the heart of Ijaw Nation today, for a course for an egalitarian and prosperous Nigeria,” Dickson said. (NAN)