 The Ministries of Defence, Niger Delta Affairs and Industry, Trade and Investment are to update the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on their activities since November 2015 The FEC meeting is presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, who returned from Accra, Ghana, on Tuesday evening where he attended its 61st Independence Anniversary. The meeting is attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha and the Head of Civil Service, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita in attendance. The Nigeria Agricultural Quarantine Service (NAQS) says it will refuse import permit for intending importer of meat into the country following the outbreak of ‘Listeria disease’ in South Africa. Dr Vincent Isegbe, the Coordinating Director of NAQS, said that the service would also confiscate any illegally imported meat into the country.  Gov. Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi says the state and the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture are collaborating to revive the Argungu fishing festival. The Governor disclosed this in Birnin Kebbi whike interacting with a team of journalists on facts finding mission on the agricultural revolution and other developments in the state. Bagudu said that the Argungu fishing festival, which was last held in 2009, was suspended due to challenges of Boko Haram insurgency. The Rural Electrification Agency (REA) will develop a 10,000 electricity mini grids to support electrification of rural communities in the country. The Agency’s Managing Director, Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi, said that the current regulatory framework in the country made it the best market for mini grid electricity development. Voters in Sierra Leone are trooping out for presidential, parliamentary and local council polls on Wednesday. Sierra Leone’s 3.17 million registered voters, out of an estimated population of seven million are expected to cast their ballots in 11,122 polling states across the country. On the eve of the election, the heads of six International Election Observation Missions (IEOMs) called on all stakeholders in the country to ensure peaceful and credible elections.