Ahead of the 2018 National Convention of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), its President, Mr Chinonso Obasi, has convened a meeting with a view to uniting students. Obasi, in a letter dated March 1, addressed to Nigerian students, said that the meeting would be held at the University of Abuja (UniAbuja) on March 10. The NANS president, in the letter, a copy of which was made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said that the fate of students’ unionism in Nigeria was dependent on the forthcoming convention. He said that reports from his consultations indicated that the agents of polarisation were aligning colleagues, stakeholders, government and politicians with intent to trade NANS, weaken its structure and politicise its interventions in national discourse. “These are selfish agents pretending to love us. “However, I remain optimistic that with the little I, Chinonso Obasi, and my elder brother, Aruna Kadiri, have done in the last 19 months or thereabouts, changing baton to the next leadership of NANS in a ‘united accord’ remains a focal way to making NANS greater than we met it. “ This is my own humble way of telling you that my interest from inception has always been about how we can strengthen NANS. “Together, with your support, I have dedicated myself and my executive to solving issues affecting our colleagues on campuses as well as agitating for better welfare condition for all Nigerian students across the globe. “ My efforts therefore are visible as they remain in an open book, every page you can open.’’ He said that in the spirit of moving NANS forward, he was inviting Kadiri, zonal coordinators of NANS and their executives, JCC Chairmen, SUG Presidents, 2018 NANS aspirants, former NANS presidents and stakeholders to the meeting. According to Obasi, the meeting will give a ‘strict’ roadmap to a credible, democratic and united 2018 NANS National Convention. He assured Nigerian students of his commitment to leaving NANS better than he met it.