+++ Ben Enwonwu’s paint of Ile-Ife princess, Adetutu Ademiluyi, known
as Tutu, has fetched in a London auction 1.2 million pounds, four times more than expected. In naira terms, it was sold for a whopping N508 million, an African record. The Nigerian masterpiece, initially declared missing, was found in a
modest north London flat recently. The painting, ranked by arts collectors with Mona Lisa, was done by the renowned artist in 1974. +++ Morin Obaweya, Creative Director, Morin O, has showcased potentials of the Nigerian leather industry with the launch of her latest handbags and shoes, tagged: ‘Floral Fusion’. ‘Floral Fusion,’ inspired by the beauty of nature, includes a
collection of leather bags and shoes with beautifully crafted flower niceties, worked into the leather, producing wonderful aesthetics.  +++ Mr Afolabi Adesanya, Veteran Nollywood filmmaker and one-time Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) has been named Chairman of 2018 edition of ZUMA Film Festival (ZUFF). Dr Chidia Maduekwe, Managing Director, Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) and Chairman ZUFF Organising Committee, made the announcement
during the week. Maduekwe said that the choice of Adesanya as jury chairman for the
festival was driven by his vast experience in the industry. +++ Owen Gee recently dropped a bombshell that he almost committed
suicide last year. The stand-up comedian revealed this shocking news as part of his
effort to join in the campaign against Nigerians committing suicide, spearheaded by a new initiative “Live and Not Die.” He disclosed how he resorted to drugs to get away from depression and how it didn’t work for him. +++ Urban highlife singer, Adekunle Gold has revealed that the visuals
for his new song ‘Ire’ was shot to eulogise his younger sister, who
died in 2011, due to heart complications. This came after fans asked the singer to clarify the ‘For Busayo’
dedication at the end of the reflective music video. He gave the answer on his Instagram page where he shared a picture of
himself and his late sister. +++ Ryan Seacrest has denied the sexual misconduct allegations levelled against him by one of his former stylists. The stylist identified as Suzie Hardy was a single mother at the time she began working with the E! and “American Idol” presenter and
producer, in 2007.