The 105 rescued Dapchi schoolgirls, have reunited with their families amidst celebrations after their meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. Parents, relations and well-wishers hit the town as the girls roll out of the luxury buses that brought them back from the airport on Sunday. It was a celebration galore as the girls, parents, relations danced along the streets of the town to celebrate the girls’ safe return. The girls, who were released by Boko Haram terrorists on Wednesday, were earlier taken to Abuja where they met with President Muhammad Buhari on Friday. The girls were handed over to the state government by a federal government delegation led by Minister of State Foreign Affairs, Khadijah Abba Ibrahim. Yobe governor Alhaji Ibrahim Gaidam, represented by the state commissioner for information, Alhaji Mala Musty, commended President Buhari for securing the release of the girls. Residents thanked the president for securing the release of the daughters. They also appealed to government not to relent until the release of the remaining girl still under the custody of the insurgents. Buhari on Friday met with the 105 rescued Dapchi schoolgirls and two boys. He assured them of their safety and said that efforts are on to also rescue the remaining Chibok girls and other Nigerians in captivity of the terrorists. “To the rescued students, we want to reassure you as our daughters that you will freely live and pursue your dreams in Nigeria of peace and order, without fear of violence or molestation. “While parents of the Dapchi girls rejoice because of the reunion with their children, I want to appeal to the Chibok Community never to lose hope or to despair. “We are determined as never before, to bring back our remaining Chibok daughters and this, we must accomplish and that will be soon, by God’s grace,” he added. He treated them to launch at the Presidential villa where he advised them to pursue their dreams without fear. The delighted President formally announced that 105 Dapchi schoolgirls and two others previously abducted by the insurgents were unconditionally released by their abductors. He noted that the development which he described as “cheering and hearty” signifies the commitment of his administration to the security and well-being of all Nigerians. President Buhari further recalled his visit to Yobe State last week during which he sympathised with the parents, families, and people of the state on the tragic abduction of the students in Dapchi. He added that he had made a solemn pledge “on my word of honour” that the Federal Government would do everything possible to ensure the unconditional release of the girls. “We are never in doubt about our focus and direction since the assumption of this administration – security, anti-corruption and revamping of our economy are the main focus of our government. “We reached out to our contacts at home and abroad, we embarked on backchannel shuttles with a clear view to bringing to an end this tragedy. “We entered into negotiations solely to make sure that no single girl was hurt. This strategy paid off as the girls have been released without any incidents,” the President added.