By Akeem Abas/Ibadan Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Aisha Buhari, wife of the President  were among the dignitaries that attended the wedding reception of Idris and Fatima Ajimobi. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that prominent Nigerians converged on Agodi Gardens in Ibadan on Saturday to celebrate with the couple and their families. NAN reports that Idris, son of Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State had on March 3 in Kano married Fatima, the daughter of Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State in an elaborate wedding attended by the President. Among the dignitaries at the event were Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, wife of the Vice President and Rotimi Akeredolu( governor of Ondo), Rauf Aregbesola (governor of Osun) and his wife, Serifat, Ibikunle Amosun (governor of Ogun) and Abubakar Bagudu(governor of Jigawa) Also in attendance were Gen. Yakubu Gowon (rtd), a former head of state, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, APC National Leader, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Chief Femi Otedola, former Govs. Adebayo Alao-Akala (Oyo), Olagunsoye Oyinlola (Osun) and Adams Oshiomhole (Edo) and  Olusegun Osoba(Ogun). Among the serving ministers present were Dr Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel, Mr Adebayo Shittu, Minister of Communications, Prof. Isaac Adewole, Minister of Health and Mrs Kemi Adeosun, Minister of Finance. Ganduje, the bride’s father, described the wedding as a bridge building mechanism that would provide an everlasting friendship across Nigeria. The governor, who named Idris Ajimobi, the Seriki Nyaki (Chief Warrior) of Kano, called for similar relationship from Nigerians to further advance the nation’s unity. Earlier, Chief Kola Daisi, Chairman of the occasion prayed for a successful marital life for Idris and Fatima Ajimobi, noting that the relationship between the young couple was a blessing for the unity of the country. He commended the courage of Idris for extending his hand of love beyond the Niger, stressing that he would have opted for a Fulani lady if he had such opportunity in his youthful days. NAN reports that other personalities present at the event were Otunba Subomi Balogun, Mrs. Bola Obasanjo, who represented Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, former Senate Leader, Teslim Folarin, Senator Ken Nnamani, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and wife of the former Lagos State Deputy Gov, Jumoke Pedro. Among the traditional rulers present were Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu and Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Adewale, Osile of Oke-Ona, Oba Adedapo Tejuoso and the Ibadan Obas-In-Council. The event, which was spiced up by popular comedians, Gbenga Adeyinka and Basket mouth, featured cutting of the wedding cake and dancing. Photo credit: Usman Dalhat Lamire