=== Security has been tightened in Jos, the Plateau state capital, ahead of President Muhammadu Buhari’s arrival today. The President, while on a two-day working visit, will commission some road projects and launch the state’s tractor ownership scheme. ======= The UN Women has recognised the Aba Women’s Riot of 1929, which ignited a revolution in the defence of women’s rights in Nigeria, as a noteworthy women-led demonstration. The recognition was part of the International Women’s Day celebration marked around the world on March 8. To commemorate the day in Nigeria, Dr Lola Dare, a gender parity advocate and Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi both called for inclusion of more women in governance. They urged women to celebrate the modest progress achieved in promoting their inclusion and commended their contributions in various capacities to growth, development and stability in the country.  ====== Libya has launched its first DNA analysis laboratory to help identify bodies recovered from mass graves. Mahmoud Al-Herri, Head, General Authority for the Care of the Families of Martyrs and Missing Persons, said that the laboratory would be sponsored by a company, Repsol and the country’s National Oil Corporation. Al-Herri said the laboratory would be used across Libya. ==== An ecologist, Richard Inyamkume, has advised stakeholders in the agriculture sector against burning of bushes and wastes because of the adverse effect on soil fertility. Inyamkume, the Senior Programme Officer, Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Initiative said such practice had negative impacts on the ecosystems, particularly soil, air quality and the environment. The expert warned that, unabated, the habit could cause the destruction of physical and chemical properties of the soil, air and water. ==== No fewer than 1,500 rice farmers in Daura, Katsina State, have received various farming implements under Phase 11 of the Central Bank of Nigeria Anchor Borrowers Scheme. Alhaji Nura Baure, Chairman, Daura Chapter of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria said each farmer received two bags of fertilizers, two bottles of herbicides, a water pumping machine, a bag of improved seedlings, two litres of liquid fertilizer and a bag of organic fertilizer. He put the monetary value of the implements at N275,000, per beneficiary, to be repaid within one year through batter with paddy rice.