By Anita Eboigbe A dialogue sticker that employs satirical approach to address certain key societal issues has sparked trends on different social media platforms. The ‘Ugo Jesse stickers’ which has got the attention of many Nigerians as well as foreigners is designed by Nigerian graphics designer Ugochukwu Jesse. The stickers aims to tackle issues such as health, women empowerment, social justice and child welfare, political awareness, human rights and human cooperation. The comic stickers, distinct by their playful and colourful look and deep dialogues, are already generating conversations on various social media platforms, including Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.  Speaking with our correspondent, Jesse said that the stickers are designed to create conversations around issues that people deem too serious to debate about on social media. He explained that this prompted him to design the stickers in ‘comic’ form, with characters that the average person could relate with, but with deep conversations that make people reflect. “The messages are designed to help people, especially the younger generation that spends a bulk of its time on social media, learn about the things that affect the shape of the society. “I share my messages because they are so many things we learn day in, day out and one can only grow when knowledge is passed properly.” He added that a lot of people on social media now have favourite characters in the series and he is working on character stickers that people can have fun with. “I have ‘Ugo Jesse’ characters stickers coming up where the people get to use their favourite characters to make laughs.” Jesse told NAN that although the Nigerian graphics industry is growing; there is still a lot of work to be done in terms of intellectual rights and value of work. “There are a lot of issues in the industry especially intellectual theft, poor payment and poor work attribution. “We could start with graphics law, so that people know it’s not right to take someone’s idea and not give credit or payment for it,” he said. Jesse urged Nigerians to learn to appreciate graphics better and erase the stereotype that `comics are for children’, as graphics could also act as softer means to achieve societal balance.