 By Gabriel Agbeja Three secondary school students have bagged the  2018 Federal Government 774 Young Nigerian Scientists Presidential Award (774-YONSPA) scholarship award. They are to be sponsored in their academic pursuit by the federal government up to Doctorate degree in any of Nigerian Universities. The three  students  are Mr Idakwoji Omonu- first position from FCT, Mr Ajisafe Solomon- Second position from Ogun State and Mr Akingbulugbe Oluwatobiloba from Ondo State. President Muhammadu Buhari made the announcement  at the 2018 Science and Technology Expo on Monday in Abuja. Buhari, who was represented by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo said that the move was to encourage more young students to study science. The Expo 2018 theme is “Fast -tracking Sustainable Development of Nigeria through Science and Technology“. According to the president, Nigeria can engage the world with innovation as the driver of the economy to lead a new initiative that will help diversify national economy in a sustainable manner. He said effort would be strengthened toward encouraging the harnessing and application of indigenous technology. “It has shown that through this expo, a new Nigeria can be born where though tribe and tongue may differ. “Science and technology can bind us together in common pursuit of creating more jobs, creating wealth, reducing poverty, strengthening the Naira, reawakening or sense of pride and ultimately growth in our economy. “Nigeria can surpass the achievements of the advance nations of the world. What we are doing today shows clearly that we have the human resource that will help us achieve this, “ he said. According to him, seriousness and sincerity will help the nation to break new frontiers that will create and nurture a better future for generations yet unborn. The Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonaya Onu said Nigeria could become technological leader in Africa to play a leading role in global battle against poverty, disease and illiteracy regarding huge natural resources. He said the recent inauguration of the Board of Parastatals under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology would play a major role to address such important challenge. “I am confident that more hands on deck in common pursuit will the deepening the depth and broadening the reach of Science, Technology and Innovation in our economic diversification process. “Finally, I am confident that this expo will build on the achievements of others before it. I believe that it is from its fountain that Nigeria will source the water for the irrigation of prosperous future. “Let us hold firm to our faith in God and remain resolute in our conviction in our journey as a nation to true greatness. I am confident that we shall succeed,“ Onu said. 