President Muhammadu Buhari has arrived in Lagos to begin a two-day official visit to the mega commercial city of Nigeria. Buhari was received at the Murtala Mohammed Airport by the Lagos state governor Akinwunmi Ambode and information minister Lai Mohammed. While the airport ceremonies were going one, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was at the ground breaking ceremony of Lekki Deep Seaport representing President Buhari. The $1.5b Lekki Deep Seaport is one of the many heavy industrial projects that have taken off in Lagos recently. While in Lagos, the president will commission some projects and attend a Colloquium to mark Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s 66th birthday. Buhari would also commission the Ikeja Bus station. The state has declared Thursday as a work free day to enable residents welcome the visiting President. Some Lagos State residents are hopeful that the visit of Buhari would bring more transformation to the state especially in the transportation sector. Mr Dele Ologunde, a Civil engineer, a Lagos residents said in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the visit of president Buhari to Lagos state has affected movement and crippled business activities in the state as a result of traffic jam. Ologunde said that Lagos residents have suffered enough daily on traffic for many years, appealing to the president to assist the state governor Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, on the road projects ease daily gridlocks in the state. “We are tired of daily gridlocks in Lagos state, we hope the president’s visit will change the look of transport situation in the state. “The residents have suffered enough on daily basis in traffic, we appealed to the president to assist the governor on the road projects,” he said. Mrs Nonso Azuka, a Lagos resident also appealed to the president Buhari to help Lagos construct the federal roads. Azuka added that some of the federal roads have dilapidated there by affecting free flow of traffic in the state. ” Lagos-Abeokuta expressway is one of the major roads that needed urgent rehabilitation. “Commuters suffer alot on the road in the morning and at night as a result of traffic jam. We beg the president to come to our aid by rehabilitating the road for the benefit of the citizens,” she said. Mr Rasheed Adewale, a Banker said that urged the federal government to rescue Lagos state from reoccurring traffic jam. Adewale said that tankers and containers have turned the state to parking lots in the process of doing their businesses. “We are tired of tankers and trucks trafic in Lagos, we appeal to the president to come to our aid and find lasting solutions to the menace”, he said. NAN reports that some roads in Lagos were blocked on Thursday creating diversions for vehicles as a result of president visit. “Ikeja Airport road were blocked, shops were locked at the computer village in Ikeja to bring orderliness to the inauguration of Ikeja Bus Terminal by the president 