US President Donald Trump was warmly received by members of what he calls the “fake news” media on Saturday night at a light-hearted gala that is one of Washington’s longest-running traditions. Trump was the guest of honour at the 133rd Gridiron dinner, where prominent Washington-based journalists traditionally make fun of the president and take jabs at the US political scene. The event featured journalists in costumes satirizing US politics and the White House culture in raucous skits, songs and speeches. About 600 people attended, including members of Congress, Trump’s cabinet and several ambassadors and prominent politicians. Trump said he had looked forward to attending the event and appeared to enjoy the show, clapping and laughing at the skits. In his response Trump made fun of the leaders of the opposition Democratic party but didn’t spare members of his own party, even Vice President Mike Pence, who also attended the dinner. He called him “one of the best straight men you’ll ever meet” -a veiled reference to his anti-gay policies. Trump largely stayed on script as he read from notes in a joking tone. He touched on international politics with regard to tensions on the Korean peninsula, saying that he would not rule out direct talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. But, he quipped that it was Kim who faced “the risk of dealing with a madman.” He also said North Korea had called and asked to begin talks, but he said he responded that they would have to “denuke” first before talks could go forward. Trump brought up his recent calls for tariffs on steel and aluminium, which have been criticized by US trading partners. He suggested they were good for “dying industries” whose executives have asked the White House for protection. The president also referred to the numerous staff departures from the White House during his first year in office. He said he liked turnover and chaos because it was “exciting and invigorating” and brought in new thought. In an awkward moment that invoked his marriage, Trump joked about who would be next to leave the White House, first lady Melania Trump or political adviser Steve Miller. He then attempted to repair any inference that the first lady might leave him by praising her for the job she’s done and by saying “she’s actually having a great time.” But, of course, Trump couldn’t resist taking a swipe at Washington’s left-leaning press corps. He said spending the evening with them was the best time he’d had since watching their faces on election night. The famously thin-skinned Trump refused to attend last year’s show, opting to send Pence in his place. That show poked fun at Trump and many people in his inner circle, including Steve Bannon, the president’s chief strategist at the time, by portraying him in a devil’s costume. The show is produced by the Gridiron Club and Foundation, founded in 1885 by journalists from major US newspapers. With the exception of president Grover Cleveland, every president since the club was founded has attended the Gridiron dinner at least once.(dpa/NAN)