By Olanrewaju Akojede Lagos-based MFM FC were on Saturday handed the heaviest defeat in their history as they were walloped 0-6 by MC Algers in the second leg of the CAF Champions League in Algiers. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Bernard Casoni-tutored team was ruthless as expected in the return leg played at the Stade 5 Juillet 1962, Algiers. The host were already 4-0 up in the first half of the game with goals from Nekkache, Walid Derrajada, Sofiane Bedeka. The icing was put on the cake for the North African team as they put two more goals past hapless MFM goalkeeper Abayomi Folarin. Nekkache was on song again with a long range pass from Hachoud, while a last gap long range by Ibrahim Amada 2 minutes in the injury time condemned MFM to a scandalous 0-6 defeat. The Fidelis Ilechukwu-tutored side had earlier won the first leg of the second round by 2-1. They however lost out 7-2 on aggregate. MC Alger have now joined  TP Mazembe of DR Congo, Al Ahly of Egypt, Swaziland’s Mbabane Swallows and Primeiro de Agosto of Angola as qualifiers for the group stage.   Mike Mutebi’s team qualified after a 1-0 win over Ethiopia’s Saint George in their 1/16th round second leg on Saturday in Kampala. The hosts qualified on a 1-0 goal aggregate after a goalless draw away in Addis Ababa last week. Striker Shaban Muhammad scored the lone goal after 46 minutes with a well taken header. He jumped and nodded Musatafa Kizza’s cross to send the fans cheering. The game started with lots of tension and defensive awareness with the two teams creating few scoring chances. But the hosts got off the blocks faster to take the lead catching the Ethiopians defenders slower in movement. Just after recess, Muhammad who was also top scorer at the 2017 COSAFA U-20 Championship in Zambia soared and headed past Robert Odongkara for what turned out to be the only goal. The visitors tried to fight back but failed to break the KCCA backline. Behailu Assefa and Abubekar Sani Abdela had their shots saved by KCCA goalkeeper Charles Lukwago. Match winner Muhammad in a post-match interview couldn’t hide his joy: “It is a nice day to be part of this club and I look forward to the group stage”. “This is a sweet win because we have qualified for the group stage. Last year, we made it to the group stage of the CAF Confederation Cup and now we are a step better,” KCCA coach Mutebi told CAFOnline.com. On his part, Saint George trainer Manuel Vas Pinto, expressed disappointment after his team’s inability to convert the chances that came their way.