The President of the Senate Dr Bukola Saraki on Sunday flew aboard an Arik Air flight to Ghana for the 25th Anniversary of the Ghanaian Parliament. Saraki who would be delivering a paper at a symposium to mark the celebration, departed on board the local flight in solidarity with other Nigerians who fly indigenous airlines. Speaking with our Correspondent on Sunday, Bamikole Omishore, SA to Saraki on International relations said that the Senate President left the comfort of the usual presidential airplane he travels in for Arik. “@SPNigeria who usually commutes with Presidential Air fleet chose to fly a Nigerian operated commercial flight to encourage trade between both countries‬. According to Omishore, Saraki chose the indigenous flight to promote trade relations between Nigeria and Ghana and also to see firsthand areas that require interventions in the Nigerian Aviation industry. With reference to the recent Dana Air near-mishaps, Omishore said that Saraki had promised to take a look at the happenings in the aviation industry so as to find the ills that will require legislations to correct. Saraki also took to his official twitter handle @SPNigeria to share some of the pictures and videos of his departure, arrival and reception by the Speaker of Ghana’s Parliament. I just arrived in Ghana. As part of activities to celebrate 25 years of uninterrupted parliamentary democracy in Ghana, I will be addressing the country’s Parliament. pic.twitter.com/02uj7seHbg — Bukola Saraki (@bukolasaraki) March 4, 2018  The Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, is now departing Abuja, Nigeria to Accra, Ghana, aboard Arik Air. #SarakiInGhana pic.twitter.com/fP4S6skYlT — The Senate President (@SPNigeria) March 4, 2018  I thank the Speaker of the Ghanaian Parliament, Rt. Hon. Prof. Aaron Mike Ocquaye, for the invitation and the gracious reception at the airport in Accra this evening. pic.twitter.com/d43xl63J2X — Bukola Saraki (@bukolasaraki) March 4, 2018  The President of the Senate, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, being hosted by the Nigerian High Commissioner to Ghana, Ambassador Olufemi Abikoye. #SarakiInGhana pic.twitter.com/BwvEpjsJSc — The Senate President (@SPNigeria) March 4, 2018 