By Hussaina Yakubu Northern governors have resolved to come up with appropriate legislation to deal with the scourge of drug abuse. The governors also appealed to the Federal Government to declare state of emergency on drug abuse in the country. The decision to fight drug menace was taken at the meeting of the Northern Governors’ Forum on Thursday in Kaduna. A communiqué was read at end of the meeting by the Chairman of the Forum, Governor Kashim Shetima of Borno. Shetima said the governors also called on the federal government to provide all necessary funds and equipment to the relevant agencies, like NAFDAC and NDLEA in their fight against the menace. “The meeting called on state governments to set up High Powered Enforcement Committees under the chairmanship of either their Deputies or SSG to ensure all relevant laws and statutory provisions in respect of drug abuse are effectively implemented,” he said. On incessant conflicts between herdsmen and farmers and other security challenges, Shettima revealed that the forum would articulate a comprehensive plan for intervention. “We will support the Federal Government in its unwavering commitment and dogged determination to address the multifarious security challenges in all parts of the nation,” the chairman said. He said the forum also agreed that governments at all levels should initiate implementable and viable measures to forestall future occurrence of any form of communal crisis. According to him, “the meeting strongly admonish political, religious and ethnic jingoist to avoid imputing religious, ethnic and political coloration to such conflict”. On restructuring of the country, the chairman said that the forum had received reports from the committee in charge. He said the meeting also resolved to give incentives that would make the New Nigeria Development Company Limited (NNDC) as one of the most formidable and competitive business outfits in the country. On New Nigeria Newspapers Company Limited, the governors resolved to hold a dialogue with pensioners to resolve outstanding issues.
(NAN)