1. The presidency says there is no plan to reintroduce the on-shore/off-shore dichotomy in sharing formula of the Federation Account Allocation to states. Sen. Ita Enang, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, said the issue was being used to campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari. Enang said that the misconception was due to the recommendations of the committee set up by the APC on restructuring and true federalism. 2. A Global Progress Report on Sustainable Banking Network has named Nigeria among 34 emerging global markets, having introduced banking reforms to expand sustainable lending. According to the report released by the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank Group, the 34 emerging markets accounted for 42.6 trillion dollars in bank assets. The figure represents more than 85 per cent of the total bank assets in emerging markets in the world. 3. Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, says the Federal Government will name and shame tax defaulters at the expiration of the Voluntary Assets and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) on March 31. Adeosun in an interactive session on the VAIDS programme in Kaduna urged individuals and businesses to take advantage of the tax amnesty programme and regularise their tax payments, to avoid prosecution.  4. The NNPC and the Nigeria Customs Service are collaborating to curb smuggling of petroleum products outside Nigeria’s borders. The Group Managing Director of NNPC, Dr Maikanti Baru, blamed independent marketers for cross-border smuggling, and diversion of petroleum products. He noted that the action of the marketers were inimical to the efficient supply and distribution of petroleum products across the country. 5. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) says the country’s economy recorded a real annual growth rate of 0.83 per cent in 2017. In its 2017 full year report, NBS said the figure represents an improvement on the -1.58 per cent recorded in 2016, about 2.42 per cent difference. The bureau said the economy maintained its positive growth since it emerged from recession in the second quarter of 2017.