 The Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, NIPR, has named the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Chapter as the ‘Overall Best Performing Chapter for 2017.’ In a statement by the Spokesperson of the FCT Chapter of the NIPR, Mr.  Stanley Ogadigo, the chapter emerged the winner after a rigorous process of critical evaluation and ranking of all Chapters’ programmes and activities by the Governing Council of the Institute. He stated that the award came as a result of hard work, the Chapter’s commitment to quality service delivery, and consistency in walking the path of professionalism and excellence”. Speaking on the award, Chairman of the FCT Chapter, Dr. Tayo Haastrup, noted that the award was in line with his administration’s resolve to position the FCT as the flagship Chapter of the Institute. He further remarked that the award is a confirmation that the NIPR’s Governing Couuncil is alive to its responsibility of monitoring the activities of the various Chapters across the country. He also attributed the success of the Chapter to the efforts of members. He listed some of the notable achievements to include  the high quality of the Chapter’s 2016 and 2017 Annual General Meetings/Conferences; the coming on board of the PR Monthly, which has become the pride of the Institute, quality programmes and stakeholders engagement for the progress of the Institute. Other include a very cordial relationship that exists between the Chapter leadership and members whom he described as unique, active and robust practitioners with passion for the profession; among other factors. Commending the effort of his team, Haastrup pointed out that the Chapter’s Executive members are the backbone and critical element in the success story, stressing that they are a team of great minds with high level of understanding. He said, “We think, reason and implement together in promotion of PR ideals and principles.” Haastrup restated his commitment to sustaining the achievements of the chapter and maintain its leading role as the best in the coming years. He also promised to consolidate on structures and gain more grounds to promote the ideals of the profession in the FCT and beyond. “With hard-work, continuous support of all members, and God always on our side, we can only do better, and hope to retain the best Chapter award for many years to come,” he said. He also commended the visionary leadership of the President of the Institute, Dr. Rotimi Oladele, and the Governing Council for the recognition and support to the Chapter; and for seeing to the growth of the Institute, as he looked forward to sustainable leadership and greater heights for the PR profession. Speaking during the presentation of the award, Mr. Mike Okereke, a Fellow of the Institute, former President of NIPR, and one of those who spearheaded the creation of the FCT Chapter, expressed delight over the impressive performance of the FCT, describing his selection to present the award as a great honour and privilege. 