By Felicia Imohimi Business and Professional Women Nigeria (BPW), an NGO, on Tuesday appealed for government support to enhance its women empowerment programmes to boost the nation’s economy. Mrs Yinka Ajibola, the National President of the group, made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at its candle-light ceremony and induction of 65 members of the organisation in Abuja. Ajibola noted that the event was also to commemorate the `International Women’s Day’ billed for March 8 and aimed at celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. She identified women as the light of the nation and the world emphasising that when you empower a woman, you have empowered the entire family and the nation at large. According to her, the candle light which was instituted by the organisation’s founding fathers in 1988 was aimed at searching for women all over the world to lighten the darkness in every environment they find themselves. “The mandates of this organisation include empowering women through micro credit scheme, putting young girls in schools, medical outreach and infrastructure development. “Other efforts include donation of foods to orphanages, execution of projects in schools and settling hospital bills of some patients. “The organisation had expended not less than N500,000 to empower women from January till date in line with its goal of touching and changing lives as well as ameliorating the plight of less privileged in the society. “These gestures could only make maximum impact through the support of government, women and others,’’ she said. Ajibola decried the number of idle, frustrated, dejected women and girls due to financial constraints and ignorance on how to be self-reliant. “As BPW develop its members, its members should reach out to other members of the society through programmes that will benefit them. “We engage in health, educational, economic empowerment and other programmes in our various communities. “We engage in cancer awareness/screening programmes, micro credit for the indigent, blood donation drives, ICT training for members and other mentorship,” she said. Mrs Yemisi Bankole, one of the inductees and President of Karu BPW, described the organisation as `a life transforming club’. Bankole noted that members of the organisation were passionate about less privileged women, girls and orphans in the society. “It is such passion that informed my membership into the organisation; to put smiles on faces of my fellow humans, especially women and girls. “The initiative of the organisation is to bridge this gap between the rural and urban women. “I want to urge fellow women and well-meaning Nigerians to be passionate and make humanitarian service a priority. “This is the only way you will find fulfillment in life because there is great gain when you are happy and see your fellow humans happy irrespective of the class status, among others,” Bankole said. Read also