The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has expressed satisfaction with the performance of Abubakar Malami, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. An excerpt from the communiqué of NANS’ recent meeting at the University of Abuja(UniAbuja) said that Malami had creditably acquitted himself since assumption of office. The communiqué was co-signed by Mr Chinonso Obasi, NANS’ President, Mr Yazeed Yazeed, Chairman, Communiqué Drafting Committee and Mr Ogunwoye Gbemiga, Secretary, Communiqué Drafting Committee. It said that the AGF deserved applause over his unbiased and patriotic stance on national issues especially, on OPL-245 which would boost economy and create more jobs. “We commended the AGF for his efforts on prison decongestion, commitment to the anti-corruption fight, his stance on the agitation for state police, and recommendations to President Muhammadu Buahari on OPL-245, among others. “Based on the aforementioned and other strides not captured here, we pass a vote of confidence on Malami.’’ The communiqué said that ceaseless litigations concerning the Oil Prospecting Licence(OPL-245) was exposing Nigeria to ridicule. The case involves the 2011 purchase by Eni and Shell of Nigeria of Nigeria’s OPL-245 offshore oilfield – one of Africa’s most valuable oil blocks – for about 1.3 billion dollars. OPL -245 is located on the southern edge of the Niger Delta, in water depths ranging from 1,700 to 2,000 metres. Malami, had in a letter to Buhari, advised that charges against the chief suspects, including his predecessor, Bello Adoke, former petroleum ministers, Diezani Alison-Madueke and Dan Etete, in the alleged Malaby bribery scandal be dropped. Malami had argued that his examination of the case file showed that there was no significant evidence to prove sharp practices by the accused persons, adding that prosecution of the suspects would portray Nigeria in bad light before foreign investors. The communiqué said that with a reserve of nine billion barrels of crude oil worth over 500 billion dollar, OPL-245 had been in an unprofitable legal battle for over twenty years. “This should stop; and a way forward or road map should be designed to enable Nigeria to benefit from its prolific assets. “Nigeria needs huge foreign Investment that can generate employment; OPL 245 is an investment haven,’’ he said. The communiqué said that NANS would continue to support the AGF and Federal Government in all people-oriented policies, decisions and programmes.  