By Isaac Aregbesola The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Edo state are collaborating on youth empowerment to destroy human trafficking and stem illegal migration. The UNDP country Director, Mr. Samuel Bwalya, stated in Benin at the closing of entrepreneur training skills for 42 Libya returnees and other youths in the Edo State. The Country Director, who was represented by Mr Robert Asogwa, said that UNDP was committed to massive youth empowerment to address various vices in Edo and other states in the country. He said that UNDP initiated the training to help the state deal with current challenge of human trafficking and illegal migration by empowering the youth. Bwalya commended Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki for his interest in empowering the youth, and stressed that the governor was very passionate about the programme. According to him, UNDP gives priority to youth empowerment because it is very key to addressing all social vices, whether militancy, youth restiveness, or illegal migration. “You know that most of the countries that are successful today have their successes linked to entrepreneurship whether it is China, India or elsewhere. “At UNDP we have partnership with governments to have robust programme on empowerment on innovation, entrepreneurship, skill acquisition and sustainable finance programmes. “To get them employed and have them establish their businesses or have innovative to start doing something on their own as we pass them through innovation incubator,” he said. He said that entrepreneur was key “even if you don’t get employment you can start your own business and employ others in the next one or two years’’. “I am sure if we are able to have massive number of youth entrepreneurs we will be able to destroy the business of traffickers, illegal migration,” he said He also explained that creating more young entrepreneurs would assist in solving the problem of youth restiveness that could lead to insurgency. Governor Obaseki, who was represented by his Chief of Staff , Mr Taiwo Akerele, commended the UNDP for the support and partnership as well as commitment toward the programme in the state. “Edo state government is committed to promoting the skill acquisition particularly capacity build of its citizen to take the advantage of the business and new investment in the state.