By Isaac Aregbesola Nigeria has expressed strong commitment to the full and efficient implementation of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, stated the commitment in Nigeria’s statement at the 37th session of the Human Rights Council in Geneva. A statement by Mrs Sarah Sanda, media aide to the Minister, said Onyeama told the gathering that a number of human rights-related bills had been passed into law by the National Assembly. According to him these include the Anti-Torture Act 2017, the Comprehensive Treatment and Care for Victims of Gun-Shot Act 2017, and the National Senior Citizens Centre Act 2017. The Minister seized the opportunity to express Nigeria’s most sincere appreciation, for the overwhelming support extended to her during her quest for re-election to the Human Rights Council in October 2017. He assured friends and partners of the readiness to promote the core mandates of the council. He added that as the 70th Anniversary of the universal Declaration of Human Rights and the 25th Anniversary of the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action are being marked. “It is pertinent to recognise that the promotion and protection of human rights remains one of the most important modalities for the attainment of international peace and security,” he said. The High-Level segment of the 37th Session of the Human Rights Council was attended by a number of UN dignitaries, including Mr. António Guterres, the UN Secretary General. Others are Mr Miroslav Lajčák, President of the UN General Assembly and Mr Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The session was attended 103 dignitaries, including Heads of State/Government, Vice Presidents, Ministers and Vice Ministers in attendance. The theme for the session was ‘promotion and protection of human rights in the light of the universal periodic review mechanisms: challenges and opportunities’. (NAN) Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey (R) and Amb Audu Kadiri, Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the UN Office and Other International Organizations (UNOG), at the High Level Segment of the 37th of Human Rights Council in Geneva