By Busayo Onijala Anto and Khloe have every reason to thank their stars after they were returned to the BBNaija house to continue their quest for the grand prize having garnered the highest votes for a comeback from their fans. Busayo Abiri, popularly known as Khloe who was disqualified some weeks back and Kbrule, her strategic partner, returned to the game after their fans gave them their support. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Anto scored 20.67 per cent votes, while Khloe got 18.40 per cent votes. NAN also reports that Khloe told viewers of the show that she would be setting a couple of things straight this time around. “Drama is Koko, Koko is drama. I’m here to set Cee-c straight. A mad man cannot tell a mad man he’s mad.” She added that she would deal with the housemates who like sleeping. “I have a problem with them sleeping every time. I’m going to keep them awake either by screaming always or beating drums.” Anto who was evicted last week after scoring the lowest votes was also given another chance to compete in the game. Auto in her chat with the host of the show, Ebuka, said that she didn’t plan to change her character too much now that she was back. “I was surprised I had so many votes. I think people want to see a little drama, so, just watch out for me. I have some unfinished business in the house.” Meanwhile, viewers of the show through their twitter handles had expressed mixed feelings about the return of Anto and Khloe to the game. Some said that Anto was quite boring and too reserved, while others celebrated her win. @runningdog46 tweeted, “my feisty #Khloe and my beautiful #Anto are coming back to the #BBnaija house!!! I got 2 reasons to resume watching the show” @AyandaBX tweeted, “why are people mad about having Anto back; her fans voted, you all need to stop it” While @michaelowete tweeted, “Anto coming back does not make any sense.” @tayofaniran tweeted, “Anytime you are going through a rough time just remember the God that gave Khloe a second chance can fix your situation. I’m encouraged by such a rare grace, congrats Khloe #BBNaija”.