Arsène Wenger has finally agreed to quit London club Arsenal at the end of this season after years of uncertainty. The Frenchman will depart the club a year ahead of the expiration of the two year contract he signed last year despite many calling for his sack. With the club’s performance in the Premier League becoming increasingly disappointing, this season marked the first time in 20 years that they failed to qualify for the Champions League. Despite having one less competition to worry about they are currently sixth in the Premier League and look certain not to achieve a top four finish, hanging their only hopes on winning the Europa League. “I am grateful for having had the privilege to serve the club for so many memorable years,” Wenger said. “I managed the club with full commitment and integrity. “To all the Arsenal lovers, take care of the values of the club.” Wenger played supervised 1228 games and won 704 in his 22-year-reign as Arsenal’s manager, winning seven FA Cups and seven Community Shields. He won three Premier League titles and also three times Premier League Manager of the Year. Wenger also has World Manager of the Year in his kitty. Meanwhile, Gary Neville has paid tribute to departing Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger and urged supporters of all club to celebrate his reign in the club’s final five games of the season. Neville was part of the Manchester United team which regularly battled with Wenger’s Arsenal during the 1990s and 2000s and has regularly commentated on his teams after becoming a pundit. He said the Frenchman’s 22-year reign should be remembered in fond terms, having led Arsenal to three of their 13 top-flight titles, an unbeaten league season in 2003/4 and seven FA Cup successes. “Arsene Wenger built the best teams that I played against in English Football. “The 98 team was Amazing. “The biggest compliment is that he played football that made us change the way we played against them. “He now deserves the most incredible send off from all in the coming weeks.