The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has expressed optimism that the strike embarked upon by  Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) chapter of Akanu Ibiam Federal Polytechnic Unwana(PolyUnwana), Ebonyi State, will be called off soon. NANS President, Comrade Chinonso Obasi, in a statement on Saturday in Abuja, urged PolyUnwana students to prepare to go back to school after staying at home for one month. Obasi said that his optimism emanated from NANS’ marathon meeting with ASUP on Thursday which came after the expiration of its 24hrs ultimatum to PolyUnwana management and ASUP to resolve the standoff. “We resolved that ASUP should hold a congress by April 10 with the aim of calling off the one month old strike for students to commence their semester Examination. “The reasons behind the strike which centred on complaints by ASUP on double deduction on pension allowances and nonpayment of peculiar allowance are issues that require thorough investigation to verify the source of such deduction. “The Secretary of ASUP,  Poly Unwana Chapter, Dr John Ibiam,  said there was an existing joint committee of ASUP and the institution’s governing council with the  mandate to verify the source of the deduction and ascertain ASUP’s claims but the report was not yet out before the strike commenced as ASUP was running out of patience.’’ The NANS president said he pleaded with the ASUP to call-off the strike for the interest of Nigerian Students, who were the receiving end. Obasi said he  also appealed to ASUP Poly Unwana Chapter  to put its  house in order as interaction with the ASUP National Secretary revealed that ASUP national leadership was not in support of the strike as  its committee of enquiry was working to find solution. “NANS urged the Deputy Rector Academics Mr Samuel Onyemachi, who represented the Rector at the meeting to intensify efforts at protecting and catering for the welfare of the lecturers. “NANS  also made the management know that NANS and ASUP have also agreed to partner in verifying the true source of the deduction as claimed by ASUP;  if at the end of the findings management is found wanting, NANS shall demand an unconditional reversal and immediate payment of all due to them. “Equally, if the claims are wrong, management should also consider the actions of ASUP as a father and son misunderstanding. “Nevertheless, the deputy rector academics responded by saying that the management is  glad for NANS intervention and also ready to assist in verifying the ASUP’s claim as management was also concerned that ASUP would have been patient to allow the joint committee already established to conclude their findings, before they consider strike as the last option.’’ Obasi said that the Chairman of ASUP Poly UnwanaChapter Mr Nwuro Carl, had during his speech at the joint congress which he presided over, thanked NANS for its intervention and promised to put the union was committed to industrial harmony in the institution. He said that Comrade Mohammed Eneji, National President of the National Association of Polytechnic Students (NAPS),  thanked ASUP and PolyUnwana  management for the audience. Obasi said that Eneji commended the readiness of all the parties to call off the strike because of NANS’ intervention and for the interest of students.