From its etymology, cars were made as means of transportation, with the first steam-powered automobile capable of human transport produced in 1769 by Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot. Over time, car making has evolved from the first combustion engine fuelled by hydrogen made in 1808 to the 1870 first gasoline powered combustion engine to 1903 when Ford produced thousands of affordable cars for sale. In recent times, cars have moved from being just a means of transportation to being a symbol of status and power used by the very wealthy and influential. From the stupendously-rich monarch in the Middle-East, to wealthy business moguls in Europe and America, cars have become another means of showing off wealth. Big names like Lamborghini, Aston Martin, Rolls Royce often come at very high prices and are only meant for rich collectors as many of them are often sold out before they reach the public. While most of the cars listed here are wildly out of the reach for most, it is a sheer pleasure just to look at them. Some of these cars are more expensive than the most affordable Jet: the Cirrus Vision 5-seater jet which goes for $1.96 million. In fact, the most expensive car in the world which goes for N3.9 billion ($13m), can buy 6 Cirrus Vision Jets. However, most of them are not available in the open market as there are only very limited quantity or they are manufactured on request. In fact there is only one of the most expensive car in the world and it would not be replicated. Below is a list of 10 most expensive cars in the World:  This is one of the latest range of high priced cars made by Bugatti and it starts at around $2.7 million. However, prices are expected to reach $3 million in the least, long before it hits the market. The Bugatti Chiron is hyped by its manufacturers and touted as the World’s most powerful, fastest, most luxurious and most exclusive production super sports car. It is a fine example of the collusion of aerospace and automotive engineering to produce a classic device that could give a speed of 268 mph. The 8.0 litre turbo-charged W-16, 1,500-horsepower engine is actually 300 more than the Super Sport, the fastest Veyron model. Its top speed has been limited to 261 mph on the road, its actual top speed is yet to be tested.  This is the most expensive Pagani ever made and named as a tribute to Benny Caiola, a noted Italian investor with probably the best collection of Ferraris and a very close friend of Horacio Pagani.  This car was first seen at the 2016 Geneva Motor Show with many cool aero features. It is equipped with a 6.0 liter V-12 bi-turbo AMG engine and produces 790 horsepower and 811 lb-ft torque. And the most amazing bit is that the BC takes over the Huayra by changing the model’s standard 150 milliseconds to 75 milliseconds and it weighs only 1,218 kilograms. This Ferrari was originally introduced as a concept car in 2013 in memory of the late son of of the founder of Pininfarina. Only six of these cars have been made so far making it one of the most coveted cars. Each of the handmade units has an all-carbon-fibre frame, and is an open air luxury car with two seats. Like the Ferrari 458, it has no roof, side windows and windshield, and is 330 pounds lighter than its ancestor. It is fitted with a 4.5 liter F136F V-8 engine, which sends 562 hp to the rear wheels. The owners of each of the six models were chosen by the manufacturers themselves, making this one of the rarest of the rare invite-only vehicles. Aston Martin is yet to announce a price for this car, experts estimate that it would cost nothing less than 3.2 million dollars. This model is a renovation of the old Aston Martin-Red Bull AM-RB 001. The 6.5 liter, naturally- aspirated V-12 designed specifically for the Cosworth, has a 1:1 power /weight ratio, and comes with a Rimac-built hybrid battery system coming with the engine which yields about a 1,000 horsepower. Only 150 of this particular car is scheduled to be distributed around the world beginning from 2019. This German car is one of the fastest cars in the World and has been upgraded four times since its release in 2005. It has an awesome lacquered carbon-fibre body along with a new spoiler package providing new diffusers, a smarter cabin and front grill, larger side scoops, a shortened hood, and the like. The 8.0 litre W16 engine of the car can produce 1,200 horsepower and 1,106 pound-feet of torque. The original version could reach up to 253 mph and was named the Car of the Decade 2000-2009. The headlights are made of urm, 240 15-carat diamonds and the LED blades made of 420 15-carat diamonds. And all the gems are customizable. It looks like an armored car with scissor doors and an interior straight out of a sci-fi movie, this car featured in the ‘Furious 7’, and has actually been drafted by the Abu Dhabi police for patrol duty. Built by W Motors, based in Lebanon, this is the first Arab supercar. And it doesn’t fare badly when compared with the traditional European biggies. It can produce 780 horsepower through the rear wheels, and a 708 pound-feet of torque. It can get to a speed of 240 miles per hour reaching 62mph in just 2.8 seconds. This is not a production car. It was made keeping in mind a select group of buyers in the U. S., Japan, U. K., and the UAE. It has a 3.8 liter twin-turbo V-8 engine surrounded with gold plating around the engine bay. The awesomeness of the aerodynamics can be witnessed where it is made for- on track, where it can produce 1000 horsepower. As of yet, only five units have been built, all of them being sold. Veneno means Poison. This car was built to celebrate the company’s 50th birthday. It has the look of an alien space capsule, this car can reach speeds that can give one of those a run for their money, literally. The 6.5 liter V12 with a seven-speed single clutch ISR automated manual transmission can spin at 8,400 rpm to yield 740 horsepowers and 507 pound-feet of torque, meaning that the car can do a 60 mph at 2.9 seconds! Made of carbon-fiber, it had a dry weight of 3,285 pounds. Only 9 units have been made making the cars resell rate very high with the highest recorded resell being $11 million. It was the most expensive car in the world ever produced upon its introduction, and only three being available to customers in the first lot. This is the most expensive production car allowed on the streets. street-legal production  car in the world, this is coated with real diamonds. Yes, you read that right. ‘Trevita’ is an abbreviation translating into ‘three whites’. The carbon fibres are indeed coated with a diamond dust-impregnated resin, called the Koenigsegg Proprietary Diamond Weave. This technology transformed the fibres from the traditional black to shining, silvery white, making the bodywork of this car renowned throughout for its unique design and perfection. And that’s not all. Beneath the coating is a 4.8 litre, dual-supercharged V8 having a total output of 1,004 horsepower and 797 pound-feet of torque. This makes it well-equipped at overtaking semis in the freeway. This car comes with a one-of-its-kind dual carbon rear wing, iconell exhaust system, airbags, ABS powered carbon ceramic brakes, paddle-shift, infotainment system, chronometer instrument cluster, tires monitoring systems along with a hydraulic system. Only three cars of this model had been initially decided upon, before getting reduced to two, because the carbon fibre made it too difficult and time-consuming for regular manufacture. Before you gasp at the price, do note that this car is off the markets. That’s because it was made on the recommendations of one specific customer whose name the company has refused to divulge. A company famous for its luxurious rollouts, there were only 4,000 Rolls Royce cars manufactured in 2016! This particular exclusive car comes with its custom coach work, reminiscent of the royal carriages of yore. Probably modeled on the Wraith, this car can seat only two people (see what they mean by being exclusive?). The sunroof is fully panoramic, tapering down sharply like those of the racing yachts, as per the orders of the customer. Something very cool about the interior handcrafted with wood and leather are the hidden attaché cases for holding laptops behind each door. Not much else is available on this most expensive car in the world, except that it is based on the 1920s and 30s models, and looks like a yacht from the back. The owner does happen to be a collector of super-yachts and private planes. Coined from beautifullife.info Top 10 Most Expensive Cars in the World – 2018  