By Iyiola Pedro Since the News Agency of Nigeria broke the news that Nigeria’s  population has been officially estimated  at 198 million, as announced by the National Population Commission (NPC), the subject has been trending, especially in relation to what it portends for the Nigerian Economy. However, while some people believe the newly released figure is as an asset, there are those who feel otherwise.  NAN-TV’s Iyiola Pedro captured one of such debate at the Vanguard Economic Discourse,  held at The Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. NAN reports that the event was chaired by Mr. Bukar Kyari, Chairman, Nigeria Economic Summit Group, NESG, while the panelists included Mr. Olabode Agusto, Chief Executive Officer of Agusto and Co; Mrs Patience Oniha, Director-General, Debt Management Office, DMO;  Mr Muda Yusuf, Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI, Comrade Issa Aremu, Vice President Global Union, African Region; Mr Opeyemi Agbaje, Chief Executive Officer, RTC Advisory Services; and Mr Tony Okpanachi, Managing Director, Development Bank of Nigeria, DBN. Filmed & edited by Iyiola Pedro According to Mr Bode Agusto, Founder, Bode Agusto & Co., who delivered the keynote address, said, if unchecked, an uncontrolled population growth could derail Nigeria’s economic development. He therefore advised that, irrespective of religious beliefs, population be included in the nation’s political agenda, saying that “we need to enact policies that will help us manage our population better. “When we got independence in 1960 the population of Nigeria was 46 million, the United Kingdom (Great Britain and Northern Ireland), 52 million (6 million people more than us). “By 2015, the UK moved from 52 to 62 million, Nigeria moved from 46 to 185 million. “According to the population pyramid, by 2070 the UK will be 80 million, Nigeria will be 552 million. “It means that demand for primary school is going to be much bigger, the number of teachers we’ll need will be more; vaccines to inoculate will be more; number of secondary schools and classrooms. “We need to send them to secondary school, keep them healthy; and after they leave school we would have to find work for them otherwise they will become what we call (in finance) Non Earning Assets. “So, at the end of the day we measure the wealth of a nation by the number of yams we have produced divided by the number of people who are going to eat it – yam per head,” he said.