Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has pledged the willingness of his administration to upgrade allowances of members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) serving in the state. Ugwuanyi made the disclosure in Enugu on Thursday during the passing-out ceremony of 2017 Batch ‘A’ Stream 1 corps members in the state. The state government recently increased allowances of medical and paramedical corps members serving in the rural areas from N3, 800 to N30, 000. The governor, who was represented at the event by the Special Assistant on Special Duties, Mr Uwakwe Azikiwe, said the gesture would soon be extended to the rest of the corps members. “Recently, the state government upgraded the allowance of medical and paramedical personnel and very soon this gesture will be extended to other corps members in the state. “As a responsible government, we will make sure that your state allowances will continue to be paid as and when due,” he said. Ugwuanyi urged the out-gone corps members to make good use of the skills they learnt during the service year as a veritable option for self employment in the face of white collar job. “You are stepping into another phase of life where you may discover that some of your preconceived ideas and dreams are not in tandem with present economic realities with regard to job opportunities. “It is now time to use the lessons learnt from this exposure to make the right decisions for your future,” he said. Ugwuanyi called on them to remain resolute and confident in their ability to decent living from genuine and honest endeavours. Earlier, the NYSC Coordinator in the state, Alhaji Ahmed Ikaka, commended the state government for organising a befitting passing out parade for the corps members. Ikaka said that the corps members had commenced their service year on May 23, 2017, adding that their performances were satisfactory. He, however, said that four of the corps members absconded from the service and would be re-mobilised to start the service afresh whenever they resurfaced. He also noted that six corps members whose performances were exceptional were honoured with the state award. “With heavy heart, I wish you to inform you that we lost two corps members to death who are supposed to be passing out today. “I wish to acknowledge with gratitude the unwavering support and assistance the scheme enjoys in the state and as humans, we plead that you should not be tired of our ceaseless requests,” he said. Ikaka also commended the local government areas of the state, traditional rulers and employers for their contributions to the success of the scheme in the state. “Finally to my outgoing corps members, I congratulate you on your great achievements in rendering your services to the people of the state. “As you move ahead to assume greater responsibilities, do not forget the positive experiences acquired during your service and stay in Enugu State,” Ikaka said. The last time an elaborate passing out parade was organised for corps members was in November 2015.