Off-topic ramblings, jests and quips during the historic encounter between the leaders of the two Koreas on Friday highlighted their growing rapport despite the security-heavy summit agenda. South Korean President Moon Jae-in and his North Korean counterpart Kim Jong-un met for the third inter-Korean summit at the border truce village of Panmunjom at a time when their close bond is critical in charting a path for a lasting peace on the divided peninsula. “When will I be able to go over (to the North)?” Moon said when he first met Kim near the Military Demarcation Line, with a throng of reporters jockeying to capture their greetings before their summit south of the inter-Korean border. Kim, in turn, made a surprise proposal for the South Korean leader to walk into the North across the military demarcation line, a 50-centimetre-wide strip inside the Demilitarized Zone that has separated the peninsula since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War. Ice-breaking confabulations continued during their official tete-a-tete, where sensitive issues such as the communist state’s denuclearisation and the establishment of a peace regime were up for discussion. “I heard that you had tossed and turned early in the morning as you had to participate in National Security Council sessions … You should be accustomed to waking up early (by now),” Kim said, half in jest. When Moon mentioned his wish to travel to Mount Baekdu via the North, Kim said he is worried about the traffic inconvenience in the North that Moon might experience — a rare admission of his country’s poor infrastructure.”The high-speed train (in the South) appeared to be good … When you come to the North after living in such a condition, I may feel embarrassed (because of the inconveniences),” Kim said. The young leader was referring to a series of top-level security talks Moon held last year with his security and foreign policy aides to discuss responses to Pyongyang’s unrelenting provocations, including the sixth and most powerful nuclear test in September last year. Their talks also touched on the tragic reality of their countries. “While coming down only 200 meters (across the border), I asked myself why it looked so distant, why it was this difficult (to travel here),” he said. Moon, in return, voiced hope that his meeting with Kim would open up opportunities for more talks in the capitals of both countries — Seoul and Pyongyang — and other scenic places such as South Korea’s southern resort island of Jeju. When Moon mentioned his wish to travel to Mount Baekdu via the North, Kim said he is worried about the traffic inconvenience in the North that Moon might experience — a rare admission of his country’s poor infrastructure. “The high-speed train (in the South) appeared to be good … When you come to the North after living in such a condition, I may feel embarrassed (because of the inconveniences),” Kim said. South Koreans watched the Moon-Kim meeting with bated breath, hoping for a dramatic breakthrough that could set the peninsula on a path to genuine reconciliation and peace following years of heightened military tensions. *Yonhap News