By Franca Ofili Ukraine’s delegation of businessmen and investors will visit Nigeria soon to explore more areas of economic cooperation. The delegation would be led by Ukrainian Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Mrs. Nataliia Mykolska. Others are the Deputy Minister for Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine, Mrs. Olga Trofimtseva; Vice President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Ukraine, Mr. Sergii Svystil as well as representatives of several Ukrainian companies working in several fields. Mr Adetokunbo Kayode, President of Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry said in a statement signed by Mr Gena Lubem, the Media and Protocol Officer of the chamber in Abuja. The major areas of interest are international trade, agrarian and food industry, automotive and aviation, engineering and Information and Communication Technology (ICT), chemical and pharmaceutical production. The delegation would be in Abuja on 6th April, 2018, for the Nigeria-Ukraine trade and investment forum. Many high profile government’s functionaries across the appropriate ministries, including agriculture and rural development; foreign affairs; industry, trade and investment will participate in the Business-To-Business forum that will take place during the event. “A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for cooperation between ACCI and its Ukrainian counterpart will also be signed in the course of the events,” he said. According to him, the business forum will provide another opportunity to activate contacts between Nigerian and Ukrainian entrepreneurs who are to be brought together to work on ways of doing sustainable business among themselves. He called on Nigerian businessmen and investors to use the avenue to trade among the two countries. Kayode also enjoined them to make fruitful contacts among themselves and ensure that perspectives of bilateral economic, trade, investment cooperation between Ukraine and Nigeria are deepened. It could be recalled that, the Ukrainian Embassy in Nigeria entered into a partnership with the chamber with a view to jointly embark on trade and other business related activities as well as deepen economic partnership between both countries. (NAN)