By Felicia Imohimi The Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN) on Tuesday inducted 100 foreign-trained medical laboratory scientists. Mr Tosan Erhabor, Acting Registrar of the council while inducting the professionals in Abuja said the inductees were successful after a seven-month pre-qualification training. Erhabor who identified medical laboratory science as a noble profession described the induction as one of the most solemn, serious and sacred rituals in the profession. The Acting registrar emphasised that as graduates of foreign institutions it was necessary for them to undergo the process of adaptation and integration as part of prerequisite to be licensed. According to him, at every point in time many aspired and struggled to be in your current position but as we all know, only few are able to meet the stringent requirements. He said: “MLSCN cannot literally unleash you on the sector without first acquainting you with the sort of environment, personnel, equipment, policies, processes and procedures as well as patients that you might encounter in your practice. “Your orientation should not even end here, instead you should consciously continue to expose yourselves to any platform that is capable of further enriching you professionally. “MLSCN remains committed toward the cause and pursuit of excellence in the health sector particularly in training of next generation of medical laboratory practitioners. “More than ever before, such people are now ever confronted with exponential amount of information in the dynamic world of medical science and technology.’’ Erhabor task the inductees on ideal teamwork, efficiency, dedication, adherence to due process, respect for self and others as well as other elements of international best practice as they have imbibed in their course of training overseas. While congratulating the scientists, parents and guardians, Erhabor said that the council had zero tolerance to all forms of professional misconducts adding that these could bring the profession and cherished family name into disrepute. Dr Sunday Etukudoh, Provost, Federal School of Medical Laboratory and Technology, Jos, assured the inductees of the college support to ensure success in their chosen career. Etukudoh tasked them on resilience and good repute while discharging their duties. The provost who identified the profession as an oracle in modern medicine further advised the inductees against blackmailing their colleagues in the quest to attain higher positions. “As you are been inducted you choose to render services to Nigerians and you must work hard to deliver quality and efficient services to patients and impact positively on their health. This is your primary aim. “Try and aspire in the profession by imbibing the culture of research. “Pray for your superiors to progress and do not go into cheap blackmail so that you will continue to enjoy relative peace and your days will be long on earth,’’ he said.