Nigerian sprinter, Seye Ogunlewe narrowly missed out of finishing in a medal position in the men’s 100 metres final of the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games in Australia on Monday. Ogunlewe placed fourth after recording a personal best time of 10.19 secs in a photo-finish with Jamaican athlete Yohan Blake. The Jamaican also posted 10.19 secs. However, it was Blake who was given third-place and the bronze medal after a much-deliberated review by the officials. The other Nigerian in the final, Enoch Adegoke, finished seventh with a time of 10.35 secs. Akani Simbine from South Africa won the 100m gold with a time of 10.03 secs, while his compatriot Henricho Bruintjies won silver with a time of 10.17 secs. With a packed crowd at Carrara Stadium roaring, Simbine blazed down the straight and crossed ahead of team mate Henricho Bruintjies in 10.03 seconds.  Blake struggled for balance after a messy start and finished with the bronze in a time of 10.19 seconds, after qualifying fastest with a time of 10.06 in the semi-finals. “I was stumbling all the way,” the 28-year-old told reporters ruefully. I just didn’t recover from it. It was a pretty easy race for me to win because I’ve been feeling good. “It was just, never (going) to happen today, I don’t know. I’m a bit disappointed because I’ve been feeling good, I’ve been running good.” Blake’s compatriot and athletics great Usain Bolt congratulated his former team mate and Simbine on Twitter. “Well done @YohanBlake,” he said. “Keep putting in the work. You know your journey.” The path to gold was made smoother for Simbine, with England runner Adam Gemili, a 4x100m relay gold medallist at the London world championships, pulling out before the final with a thigh injury. Michelle-Lee Ahye held off a two-pronged Jamaican challenge to claim the women’s 100m gold for Trinidad and Tobago in 11.14. Ahye edged Christania Williams (11.21), with her Jamaican team mate Gayon Evans taking bronze. World and Olympic 800m champion Caster Semenya kicked off her bid for a Commonwealth double with a comfortable win in the 1,500m heats in four minutes and 05.86 seconds.