Top members of the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors in Nigeria (CIFIAN) have described as `unfortunate and a display of ignorance’ statement credited to the President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria(ICAN). Dr Victoria Enape, CIFIAN President, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja, said the ICAN boss had shown that he was not in tune with global trend in financial auditing. ICAN President, Alhaji Ismaila Zakari, had at a function in Lagos recently, warned against proliferation of accountancy bodies in Nigeria, saying promoters of those bodies were only interested in their personal pockets and not the profession. Zakari had referred the promoters of the accountancy bodies as comedians. “Only last month, ICAN was invited by the National Assembly to make presentation on a bill seeking to provide for the establishment of Chartered Institute of Forensic Accountants of Nigeria and another one seeking to provide for the establishment of Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors in Nigeria. “I led a delegation to the Senate where I made a presentation in which I condemned the bill in strong terms. All hands must be on deck, if we are to kill this mediocrity. We are hopeful that the Senate would not listen,” Zakari said. However, Enape said she read what the ICAN president said with much dismay, adding that she was sure that justice would prevail. She said that the CIFIAN Bill did not in any way amount to duplicating of duties or looking for money as alleged. “We are not comedians neither are we mediocres. A mediocre cannot write a book on forensic auditing like I have done. Nobody in ICAN has written a book on anything forensic. “Today in Nigeria, the first person to write a book on Forensic and Investigative Auditing and Fraud Prevention in the President of CIFIAN. “Besides the National Assembly is made up of credible people and I know that will disregard that ignoble call; they will not be on the side of people that have selfish interests. “There is need to be specialisation as obtainable in other countries,’’ she said. According to her CIFIAN is not a threat to ICAN and she does not see ICAN as a threat to CIFIAN as forensic and investigative auditors are coming to check fraud by going beyond the traditional auditing practice. “I think that comment exposes his ignorance in the terms of global best practices in financial accounting and auditing. “I do not see any reason why it is a problem to ICAN for other professional bodies to exist. ANAN is in full support of what we are doing. For the fact that you that forensic auditing is the current trend globally is not enough reason for you to shift and say you are now doing forensic; is it in their enabling Act?,’’ she queried. On his part, Wilson Herbert, Professor of Accounting and Financial Management, Federal University, Utuoke, Bayelsa State, said he was saddened that ICAN was misplacing its priorities. He said that it was misleading for ICAN to talk about proliferation of accounting bodies in Nigeria when just two of such bodies were servicing a huge population. “There are many things challenging our country socially, politically, economically and otherwise; I do not know why ICAN is wasting time fighting the CIFIAN Bill. “It was the formation of ANAN that woke ICAN up; a population of above 180 million with only two professional bodies and you say it is proliferation. “The statement is most unfortunate; using vindictive and characterising the promoters of CIFIAN Bill is regrettable,’’ he said. In his reaction, Dr Gbegi Daniel, Senior Lecturer, Federal University of Agriculture, Markudi and a fellow of CIFIAN, said he was baffled that a person occupying a post as ICAN president was not abreast with current trend in the financial world. He said that name calling was petty and unexpected from the ICAN president. Meanwhile in a recent letter to  the Senate Committee on Establishment and Public Service, Enape said that ICAN had no moral right to warn against what it characterised “proliferation of accountancy bodies in Nigeria”. She said it showed unbridled and opportunistic desire to monopolize the accounting practice in Nigeria. Enape said that ICAN did the same thing against the establishment of ANAN bill, and they woefully failed in that voyage and also used the same worn-out argument against the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) bill, whose promoters were mostly their members, to frustrate the passage of the CITN bill, and they again failed in their enterprise. “Now, they have started foraging in their usual futile, circumlocutory fashion to frustrate the passage of Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative AUDITORS IN Nigeria (CIFIA bill). “The question to ask ICAN is: Where have they been with their professional excellence when Nigeria has been burning with fire of corruption, bribery, fraud, money laundering and financial crime which have for long ravaged our economy and dwarfed development? “Is it not the case, as shown by empirical research and legal pronouncements, that these social vices that led to the collapse and failure of many companies were aided and abetted by invidious and insidious accounting practices by the so-called ‘know-it-all’ accountants. “In fact, ICAN and their cohort should be hiding their faces in shame because it is their reprehensible and opprobrious accounting practices that largely contributed to the failure of corporate governance and failure of many large corporate organizations, with devastating consequences. “Had they been altruistic and less opportunistic in their practices, the corruption perception index of Nigeria would not be as bad as it is and has been over the years.” She said in the letter that she trusted the credibility of the Committee and the Senate handling the case and believed that they could not be manipulated by ICAN and their cohort. 