Activities at the Presidential Villa started on Sunday March 25, from the Vice President’s wing when Prof. Yemi Osinbajo paid a condolence visit on the government and people of Bauchi state on the death of Senator Ali Wakili. The Vice President was received at the Bauchi Airport by the state governor, Mohammed Abubakar. While in Bauchi the Vice President condoled with the Emir of Bauchi Alhaji Rilwan Suleiman, at the emir’s palace before proceeding to the residence of the deceased to commiserate with his family. During the visit to the palace, Prof. Osinbajo remarked that “it doesn’t really matter how long one lives, it is the quality of service, it is what one is able to give to those around him that matters and as well how much impact the person leaves not just to his community, but to the nation.” On Monday, March 26, twenty-four hours after Osinbajo’s visit to Bauchi, President Muhammadu Buhari commenced his own activities for the week with the signning of the instrument of ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between Nigeria, Switzerland and the International Development Association that will lead to the repatriation of illegally-acquired assets to Nigeria. A statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, said the MoU will ensure the return, monitoring and management of illegally-acquired assets confiscated by Switzerland and to be returned to Nigeria. He said the President also signed the instrument of ratification of the agreement between Nigeria and Singapore for the avoidance of double taxation. Also on Monday, President Buhari inaugurated the National Food Security Council with a pledge to develop new programmes that would create more jobs in the agricultural sector. Speaking during the inauguration, the President pledged that his administration would remain focused on securing the nation’s food requirements and employment for the people especially the youths. The President equally received Martin Luther King Jnr’s family at the Presidential Villa during which he was conferred with the 1st Black History Month National Black Excellence and Exceptional African Leadership Award 2018. On Monday night, President Buhari led other top government officials elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress to a meeting of the party’s national caucus at the new Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Vice President Yemi Osinbajo joined President Muhammadu Buhari and other party leaders at the APC caucus meeting held at the Presidential Villa after receiving the report of the National Economic Council Technical Sub-Committee on the Herdsmen/Farmers clashes across the country, in his office at the Presidential Villa, on March 26. President Buhari on Tuesday March 27, attended the National Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja. In his opening remarks, the President asked the party to reverse its decision granting a tenure extension for party executives at all levels, cautioning the party’s NEC to henceforth avoid taking decisions capable of destroying the pary or playing into the hands of the opposition. Vice President Osinbajo was also with the President and other party leaders at the National Executive Committee meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abuja, on Tuesday, March 27. On Wednesday, March 28, President Buhari presided over a meeting of the Federal Executive Council. At the end of the meeting, the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, told State House Correspondents that Council, among others, approved N20.8 billion for the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu-Sagamu road in Lagos and Ogun States. Also on Wednesday, March 28, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo attended the weekly meeting of the Federal Executive Council. He later travelled to Lagos ahead of the President’s two-day working visit to Lagos State. Thursday March 29, saw the President commence a two-day working visit to Lagos State, where he commissioned the Ikeja Bus Terminal and attended the 10th Bola Tinbu Colloquium. Speaking at the Colloquium, the President paid glowing tributes to Tinubu, describing the APC National leader as his “political partner.” The President also issued his 2018 Easter Message to the Nation,  urging Nigerians to counter hate with love and for Christians to imbibe the profound teachings of Jesus Christ. He further urged politicians to resist any attempt to derail the country’s democratic process. On Thursday, March 29, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo flagged off construction work at the Lekki Deep Seaport in Ibeju Lekki, Lagos State. In his remarks, Prof. Osinbajo explained why the Deep Seaport remained a landmark project for the Buhari administration. He said, “the development of this deep seaport is mission critical to the achievement of the important objective of creating Special Economic Zones. “It is the commitment of our economic philosophy to private sector leadership of our economic development efforts.” He assured the private sector partners that the Federal and Lagos State governments would be with them “every step of the way to ensure that we give all the support required.” The Vice President later moved to the Eko Hotel venue of the 10th Tinubu Colloquium organised to mark the 66th birthday of Sen. Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In his remark, Prof. Osinbajo said, “despite the fall in the price of crude oil, the main stay of Nigeria’s economy, and reduced national revenue as a result, at the time it was elected in 2015, the Buhari administration has been able to put in place the largest pro-poor programme in Nigeria’s history”. He added that the Federal Government, in line with its determination to curb grand corruption, has made significant strides in improving the welfare of Nigerians and reaching millions of beneficiaries through its Social Investment Programmes. On Friday, March 30, President Buhari concluded his two-day visit to Lagos with a tour of Eko Atlantic City. In his remarks after unveiling a plaque to commemorate his visit to the facility, the President commended foreign and local investors for their investments in the country. The President condoled with the families of Deputy Majority House Leader, Umar Buba Jubril and Chief Audu Ogbeh, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development for their bereavements. While the Deputy Leader died on Friday, Chief Ogbeh buried his younger brother, Clement Ogbeh, a staff of the CBN, same day. Also on Friday, March 30, the Vice President graced the wedding reception of Hamza Halilu Ahmed and Hadiza Jika at the State House Banquet Hall, Abuja. Just as he started the Presidential Villa activities for the week, the Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo rounded off activities in the Villa on Saturday, March 31, with a visit to Yola, Adamawa state for the turbaning ceremony of the first Dujima of Adamawa, Alhaji Musa Halilu Ahmed held at the palace of the Lamido of Adamawa. Read also: Presidential Villa roundup for March 18 to March 24, 2018