By Olukayode Babalola Nasarawa United has defeated visiting Katsina United by 2-0 to earn the maximum points in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). The two goals were scored by Nasarawa United striker, Nojeem Olukokun in the match played at the Lafia Township stadium on Wednesday. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that NPFL Match Day 15 encounter was initially scheduled to be played on April 1, but was postponed to Wednesday due to Easter celebrations. Nasarawa United took control of the encounter after kick off with good skill exchange of passes and got rewarded with an early goal in the 11th minute when Victor Okoro beat Katsina United defender to cross to Olukokun who nodded home from close range. Despite having a large chunk of possession, the home side could not double their lead throwing away clear goal chances. The visitors however mounted intense pressure on the home boys, forcing Nasarawa United defender, Abdulbasit Shittu to score an own goal in the 24th minute. Nasarawa United restored their lead in the 43rd minute when Abubakar Abdullahi beat two Katsina United defenders and slipped a pass to Olukokun who made no mistake from close range. Kabiru Dogo, Head Coach of Nasarawa United praised the officiating as fair, but appealed to the League Management Company (LMC) for improvement. “This kind of officiating should be extended to away teams so that everybody should be treated fair and let the best team win. “So if officiating continues like this, the league will improve and I believe there is no way we will not pick our points away. So I thank our fans and all other stakeholders for their support,” he said. Abdullahi Biffo, Head Coach of Katsina United admitted that the game was played and won fairly by Nasarawa United, and said his team would re-strategize to avoid a repeat of what happened at the Lafia stadium. “It was a fair game. In the first twenty minutes, they won the game. It was a real war in those first twenty minutes. Then they got their two goals and that was how it ended. “I knew fully before the game started that it is not going to be an easy game,” he said. (NAN)