President Muhammadu Buhari has insisted that only probity, transparency and accountability in the public and private sectors that will secure the future of the country for all Nigerians, especially the youths. Buhari, who received a Letter of Credence from the Head of Delegation of the European Union to Nigeria, Mr Ketil Iversen Karlsen, on Thursday in Abuja restated the administration would continually promote the culture of honesty and integrity. This is to guarantee a better future for the youth. “Our insistence on probity is to encourage people to be accountable, and accept honesty as a lifestyle so as to secure the future of our youths,’’ he said. According to the President, more than 60 per cent of Nigerians fall into the age category of youths and deserve to inherit a stable and prosperous country that they can be proud of. He added that the government would work assiduously to prevent waste and the depletion of resources by corrupt Nigerians. President Buhari told the Head of Delegation of the European Union that Nigeria had been reluctant to sign the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) among ECOWAS countries because of the need to protect the economy, especially the industries and small businesses that currently provide jobs for majority Nigerians. The President noted that the signing of the agreement would expose the industries and small businesses to external pressures and competitions, which could lead to closures and job losses. He said: “We are not enthusiastic about signing the EPA because of our largely youthful population. “We are still struggling to provide jobs for them, and we want our youths to be kept busy. “Presently, our industries cannot compete with the more efficient and highly technologically driven industries in Europe. “We have to protect our industries and our youths.’’ President Buhari, who commended the EU for its support for the rehabilitation of the North East, noted that the Nigerian economy was already being repositioned to attract more investment that will create jobs. In his remarks, Karlsen said the EU would continue to support President Buhari’s administration in the key priorities it listed which included security, economy and the fight against corruption. He said the EPA was designed to accommodate and protect some economies that would find it difficult to compete. “We are hopeful that there will be a signature on the agreement,’’ he added. President Buhari also received Letters of Credence from the Ambassador of Italy, Dr. Stefano Pontesilli and the Ambassador of Spain, Mr Marcelino Cabanas Ansorena. (NAN)