Elliot Broidy, a top fundraiser for President Donald Trump has resigned from the Republican National Committee following a report that he paid $1.6 million to a Playboy model he had an affair with. Broidy told RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel Friday afternoon that he was resigning immediately, an RNC official familiar with the discussion said. The official requested anonymity to discuss a private phone call between McDaniel and Broidy. The Wall Street Journal reported Friday that Trump’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen helped negotiate a non-disclosure agreement between Broidy and the model last year. The unidentified playmate elected to have an abortion after discovering she was pregnant. Broidy apologized to his wife for the affair in a statement, The Associated Press reported Friday. Broidy, a venture capitalist,  had served from 2005 to 2008 as finance chairman of the Republican National Committee (RNC). In 2017 he was named a deputy finance chairman of the RNC, a role he was forced to resign in April 2018 after allegations arose that he impregnated an ex-Playboy bunny he kept on retainer for sexual services. According to Wikipedia, Broidy is the son of Sherman G. Broidy who died in 2014, an educator and property developer, and Dorothy Horowitz. He was born about 61 years ago and  graduated from the University of Southern California, where he received a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting and Finance. He is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Broidy started his career in finance at Arthur Andersen. He was managing director at Bell Enterprises from 1982 to 1991. In 1991, he founded Broidy Capital Management, an investment firm, serving as its chairman and chief executive officer. He served as chairman of ESI Holdings, an event management firm. He served as commissioner and chairman of the Alternative Investment Committee of the Los Angeles City Fire and Police Pension Fund from 2002 to 2009. In 2002, Broidy founded Markstone Capital, a private equity firm which invested in companies in Israel. The lead investor was the New York State Common Pension Fund. The pension fund invested $250 million with Markstone. Broidy later was accused of giving illegal gifts to pension authorities, several of whom went to prison. In exchange for his testimony against them, Broidy pleaded guilty to a misdemeanour and paid $18 million in restitution. Broidy owns the private security company, Circinus, which provides services to the United States and other governments. The company has hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts with the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He  planned a trip to crown prince of Saudi Arabia with George Nader, to try to sell him a $650 million contract with Circinus. The plan failed when the F.B.I. agents took Nader in for questions upon arrival at Dulles Airport.