By Thompson Yamput Mr. Alexander Mwolwu, Plateau PDP chieftain has accused former President Olusegun Obasanjo of plotting to discredit the party to promote Social Democratic Party (SDP). Obasanjo, had in a statement made on Monday, told Nigerians not to take the apology offered by PDP some weeks ago serious and had described it as a corrupt political party. Mwolwus told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Pankshin that Obasanjo’s  pronouncement is “very unfortunate’’ and “selfish in nature’’. While describing PDP’s apology to Nigerians through its National Chairman as “a right step in the right direction’’, he said: “Only great men own up to their mistakes.’’ “If PDP had apologised willingly having owned up to its mistakes, it shouldn’t be castigated for that because every human organisation has its own limitations. “Even though Obasanjo’s plots to discredit PDP to promote his own political party, SDP, he seems to have missed it and does not know what he is doing. He is the most ungrateful and corrupt Nigerian leader, who never knew how PDP was formed. “But all the same, his party will not be anywhere close to having the confidence of Nigerians if that is the way he wants to go drumming  support for it. “Obasanjo was never a member of PDP but out of sheer pity and magnanimity, the party brought him out of prison and made him president on a platter of gold, ’’ the chieftain alleged. Mwolwus further stated, “we made him who he is today, yet he had the guts to spit and shout against us.’’ The PDP chieftain accused the ex-president of introducing corruption and corrupting the National Assembly with his third term failed ambition. According to him, Obasanjo corruptly sold out government properties to his cronies and spent billions of Naira on electricity. Nigerians couldn’t see its impact but only darkness. Mwolwus described The list of alleged looters released by the federal government on Sunday,  as lopsided and unreal since the names of those who jumped from PDP to APC were omitted. “By that list, President Buhari ended up disappointing his ardent admirers and supporters. If people who looted and jumped into APC and those in APC that were caught red handed are not on the list, but only PDP members, then there is question mark on it (list), ’’ Mwolwus said. He called on Nigerians not to be bothered by the game plans of APC and Obasanjo, but should keep faith with PDP, which he said has realised its mistakes and wishes to give them a purposeful leadership in 2019.