Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom, is elated over President Muhammadu Buhari’s fatherly role to the 36 governors  and for assisting the military to perform. “I am not afraid to say this anytime, anywhere that he is a father of all of us. I really want to thank him,’’ he said. Emmanuel therefore praised Buhari as father to all. He made the commendation on Friday as the Guest of Honour at the closing of NAF Combat Sports Competition tagged, “Uyo 2018” held in Uyo at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium. He said Buhari was playing fatherly role to all the 36 governors in the country irrespective of political affiliations. “Above all, I thanked the Commander in Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari, because if he did not provide the resources the Nigerian Air Force and other armed forces would not be where they are today. “So, I must thank the Commander in Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, our own President Muhammadu Buhari for being such a good general to all of us including myself. “The primary role or responsibility of any government is that social contract of protecting life and property,” Emmanuel said. The governor said the whole essence of the competition was not only to win medals but to improve on the physical fitness of the air force personnel. He commended the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), AVM Sadiqque Abubakar, for repositioning the air force through capacity building for effective, efficient and timely employment of air power in response to the security of the nation. According to him, the CAS has repositioned the Nigerian Air Force to be highly professional and disciplined through capacity building initiatives for effective training. The governor appealed to the Chief of Air Staff to ensure the establishment of Air Operational Base in the state while still in office. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Ground Training Command Team based in Enugu emerged the overall winner in the 3rd Nigerian Air Force Combat Sports Competition. The ground training command garnered six gold and three bronze medals to emerge the winner and followed by the Logistics Command based in Lagos with five gold, six silver and nine bronze. The third position went to the Tactical Command team based in Makurdi with five gold, six silver and three bronze medals. NAN added that the Nigerian Army won in the combat invitation relay race, followed by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, while the Nigeria Police Force took the third position. Earlier, the Chairman Organising Committee of the competition, Air Commodore Mfon Ekpor, thanked Emmanuel and the Akwa Ibom people for their hospitality accorded the contingents, officials and all the guests during the competition. (NAN)