Liverpool are out of the England FA Cup, knocked out 2-3  by West Bromwich Albion, who are 19th on the League table. In a day of few upsets, in which  third tier League One Wigan also defeated Premier League  team West Ham United 2-0, Tottenham needed Harry Kane  to salvage a draw at Newport County, a  4th tier, League Two side. Fourth-tier Newport, one of several Welsh clubs who play in English domestic football, put themselves in sight of one of the all-time great upsets against eight-time FA Cup winners Tottenham,  thanks to Padraig Amond’s first-half goal. But eight minutes from time, in-form England striker Kane equalised when, after Spurs had won a corner, he tapped in from close range following an excellent flick-on from South Korean Son Heung-Min. And 1-1 was how it finished as League Two Newport survived four minutes of injury-time to hold out for a lucrative replay at Wembley, Spurs’ temporary home while their new home ground in north London that will replace White Hart Lane is built. Newport, a massive 72 places behind a Spurs side who are fifth in the Premier League, sparked delirious scenes at Rodney Parade when Amond gave them a 38th-minute lead. Ben Tozer’s long throw into the box caused consternation in Spurs’ defence and Robbie Willmott’s clip across to the back post was nodded in by Amond. It seemed Rodney Parade, where Newport Rugby Club beat giants New Zealand and South Africa in the 1960s, was about to play host to another great sporting upset. But with County in sight of the last 16, boyhood Spurs fan Kane spared his side from a damaging defeat. Earlier, West Ham manager David Moyes labelled Arthur Masuaku “despicable” after the midfielder was sent off for spitting in a 2-0 defeat by Wigan. Premier League West Ham, already 1-0 down to the first of two goals from Will Grigg, were reduced to 10 men four minutes into the second half when Masuaku saw red for spitting at third-tier Wigan’s Nick Powell. “It was despicable,” said Moyes. “If you do that, then you’re going to get the punishment in any walk of life. “I just asked him, did he spit and he said, ‘Yes’.” Wigan have slumped down English football’s ladder since winning the FA Cup in 2013, but the League One leaders rekindled memories of that run to Wembley. West Ham were without several injured first-choice players and an upset always looked on the cards. 