By Joshua Olomu Prince Alvin Ahmed has been sworn-in as the new Chairman, Abuja chapter of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN). Ahmed was elected alongside other Executive Members on Dec.2, 2017, to steer the affairs of the guild for the next two years. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the nine-member executive took their oath office on Thursday night at the ‘Inauguration and Fund Raising Night” of the Guild held in Abuja. Other members of the leadership team include Anithan Audu-Vice Chairman, Joseph Nwanze-Secretary General and Patience Eze as the new Public Relation Officer for the Guild. Also, Etukudoh Godwin, Treasurer; Ifeoama Nwakozo, Financial Secretary and Jackson Oluwafemi, Chief Whip. In his inaugural speech, the new chairman, Ahmed, on behalf of the executive pledged their commitment to the guild, adding that they would consolidate on the successes recorded by their predecessors. He noted that members welfare was to be given uttermost priority to ensure that actors in the FCT remained outstanding. “We are set to hit the ground running as we re-position our noble guild towards ensuring that actors in Abuja take their pride of place. “Nollywood has other guild as well, we hope to build a better working relationship with them and other relevant stakeholders for the growth of the film industry in the Territory,” he said. In his remark, the National President of the AGN, Emeka Rollas, who handed certificate of office to the new executives, urged them to maintain the good legacies of the immediate past leaders of the guild. He noted that while many other state chapters of the AGN were being factionalised, the FCT chapter remained united and strong, and thus became a reference point. “Abuja chapter, under the leadership of Agility Onwurah, has really shown that it is the centre of unity indeed, as it grows stronger; I therefore urge this new executive to maintain the good name.” In the same vein, Agility Onwurah, the out-going president of the guild in the FCT, urged the new executives to remain steadfast, as he was ready to give necessary advice to the new leaders whenever that was required. NAN reports that Nollywood actors, leaders of the Association of Movie Producers (AMP) and the Directors Guild of Nigeria (DGN) were among groups present at the event.