By Sumaila Ogbaje Mango Television & Production Company Limited has unveiled dedicated children television channel to educate African children about African culture and heritage. A statement by the Media Manager, Mango Media, Victoria Nkong, on Tuesday in Abuja disclosed this. Nkong said that Mango TV would see the emergence  of a carefully  created African Children’s  TV Channel that  would entertain and educate African Children using examples,  characters and stories that they  can relate to. She said it was vital that the  African Child was exposed  to ‘Afro-Centric’ programs that would also manifest in a more informed, educated, aware, open-minded, confident and empowered adult. According to her, Mango TV  content will  be made primarily  in Nigeria,  thus employing  young presenters and  actors, while  creating much  needed  work for  professionals  within the  various  disciplines of  the  Nigerian creative industries. “Mango TV will invest in Nigerian and African culture. “Our programming is broad and includes Stories, Quiz Shows, African Tales, Cooking Shows, Agony Aunt, Discussions, Culture and Science Documentaries, Music and much, much more. “Our Mission  is to Educate,  Entertain &  Empower African Children  while promoting  African Culture, Religious Tolerance, Gender Equality and Geographical Acceptance. “Mango TV  will announce the  Channel’s official launch date  at the formal  press conference that  will take place soon. “Mango TV is probably the most important television initiative to be launched in the last decade on the African continent,” she said. Nkong disclosed that the television was  a  special  purpose vehicle  founded  by  highly experienced Business,  Media  Management, Production  and Marketing  experts in Nigeria. She said that the  administrative arm of the company would be inaugurated out  of Nigeria from a management and content creation standpoint that would be known as Mango Media, while the channel will be known as Mango TV. The company directors, according to her her, Francis Ogboro, Biola Alabi, Ali Safieddine, Hadi Safieddine and Carl Raccah. “Mango  TV will  be the  first  dedicated Children’s  Television Channel  on  the African  Continent.  Our programming is aimed at children between the ages of 4 to 16 years of age and Mum and Dad. Mango “TV will be a safe place for families to watch television,” she said.