By Franca Ofili Mrs Lami Dakwak, the Director of Training, Industrial Training Fund (ITF), says  the fund requires adequate funding to be able to perform  effectively in the country. Dakwak  who conducted newsmen round the facility in Abuja, on Wednesday  said  about five billion Naira was needed to reposition its Model Skill Training Centre for optimal performance. Dakwak  said  that the major challenge of the centre was funding and inability to move to the permanent site adding that the objective of the centre was to produce much needed technical skills. She said the centre was also established to create opportunities for young school leavers to acquire employable skills and to provide technical and vocational services to industries. Dakwak said the aim of the centre was also to bridge the gap between classroom and the real workplace. “The programme is to train and equip youths with employable and entrepreneurship skills and promote Public-Private Sector Model in Vocational and Technical Skills Training,’’ she said. Dakwak said the concept for the centre began in 2oo8 but the training proper commenced in 2011. “The idea was conceived after a visit to various nations, especially Singapore Institute of Technical Education. “The fund has to engage the services of the institute to set up the model school centre,’’ she said. According to Dakwak, the centre has five educational areas namely:  Facility Maintenance Technology, Information and Communication Technology, Electronics and Computer Networking, Mechatronics and hospitality and tourism. She said that the fund had the best training centre in Africa, especially in the area of mechatronics. According to her, the centre is achieving its mandate to promote, encourage and provide skills to youths. “The centre approach for training is 80 per cent practical, and 20 per cent theory.’’ Dakwak said the National Board for Technical Education gave approval to the centre in 2016 to award the National Innovative Diploma Certificate, equivalent to the National Diploma Certificate. She said that the Information Technology, Singapore was still partnering with the centre as they still come to inspect, audit and commission the equipment. According to her, candidates must go through the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to gain admission for the diploma level but for the national vocational certificate anybody could be admitted. Dakwak said the centre had graduated 124 youths since inception, adding that the method of training was on one-on-one bases. (NAN) 