By Emmanuel Afonne The aviation industry is set to witness a re-branding with the introduction of “Miss Aviation African Beauty Pageant”. Organiser of the pageant, Mr Ossai Ilome, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that the pageant scheduled to hold in June, was designed to change the labour dynamics in the Aviation sector in favour of local content. Ilome also said that the pageant would be used to create a platform to engage relevant stakeholders towards improving business environment for operators of airlines and also create a safe and serene environment for passengers. According to him, government cannot solve the challenges in the aviation sector alone; hence, the introduction of the Miss Aviation African Pageant to help facilitate and create platform for the aviation transformation in Africa. “We need to identify gaps and requisite solution in the provision of adequate safety and security services to customers. “The pageant hopes to expose and expound policy gaps as it relates to providing business friendly environment for operators,” Ilome said. Co-founder of the pageant, Blessing Chijekwu, said that the maiden event would provide not less than three scholarships to African girls to attend aviation academy quarterly within Africa. “The event is also expected to champion African girls career empowerment by mentoring and networking professionals and encouraging professionals and encouraging students to focus on developing aviation sector careers. “Women are the continents greatest untapped resources and we are dedicating this pageant to ensure the increase number of women in decision making positions in the aviation industry,” Chijekwu said. She noted that the miss aviation pageant was socially designed to harness the potential of beauty queens in  contributing to development of  the aviation sector. Chijekwu urged contestants wishing to participate in the beauty pageant to log on to: www.missaviation.org to register. The “Miss Aviation African Pageant” logo was unveiled on Feb. 23 to kick start preparation for the grande finale scheduled to hold in Lagos in June.