By Ijeoma Okigbo Some sports journalists participating in the maiden Nigeria Shooting Federation (NSF) media workshop and competition have been exposed to shooting equipment for the first time. The journalists lauded the NSF for creating an opportunity to enable journalists get first-hand information of the sport as it concerns its reportage. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that about 40 journalists from across the country are participating in the event in Abuja. Adeniyi Ajisafe, with Nasarawa Broadcasting Service, Lafia jokes that his experience could earn a job in the paramilitary. “I am feeling as if I am already a shooter. We have been through all the rudiments of the sports and it’s equipment. “Right now, I feel like as if I am paramilitary personnel, though the training is short but I feel this sport is unique. ” I am happy to be use the equipment, not just theory but in practice,” he said. Kuti Dare, ACL Sports UK said the training would enable journalists report the game better. “This is the first time I am getting exposed to its equipment. I have been watching shooting for a long time, but I didn’t know it had this numerous techniques. “I am happy because many of us do not really know the sports we cover and we tend to make mistakes in terms of terminologies which include ranges and guns. Binta Nuan, a staff of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Lafia, says she is optimistic that she the Federation would organise tournaments to enable her watch the game life aside the screen. “I have been watching shooting on television but I am very excited that the Federation is pushing to organise tournaments in the sports. “I am also excited because many of us are novice when it comes to handling of guns and shooting, but being exposed to the equipment, ensures carefulness,” Nuan added. Favour Itua of Comfort FM, Uyo, hoped that the nation would take part in more international events. “I feel good and nice and must commend the federation for bringing journalists from various parts of the country. It shows their willingness to revive the game. “The exposure to these equipment is really thrilling for me. Looking at the various riffles, pistols and other ranges we were introduced
to shows that this sport has come to stay. NAN reports that the journalists were exposed to paint ball, air rifles, pistols and more. (NAN)