The National Bureau of Statistics says the country’s economy recorded a real annual growth rate of 0.83 per cent in 2017. The bureau said in a report that the 2017 growth rate of 0.83 per cent was higher than the -1.58 per cent recorded in 2016, a difference of about 2. 42 per cent. It stated that Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 1.92 per cent (year-on-year) in real terms in the fourth quarter of 2017 and that the economy has maintained its positive growth since it emerged from recession in the second quarter of 2017. ××× The Alabama State University, U.S., has admitted owing the Nigerian government $202,000, being part of the money meant for Nigerian scholars, but misappropriated by the university. 36 Nigerians at the school had two years ago sued the University for misappropriating 800,000 dollars meant for them; and the Nigerian government has joined as a plaintiff in the suit. The university has admitted that it indeed owes the Nigerian students some money, according to media reports  ××× The Nigerian and Cameroonian armies have killed 35 Boko Haram terrorists and rescued 603 civilians held hostage. Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, the Deputy Director Public Relations, Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole, said the troops took the battle to the terrorists and hit their enclaves at Kusha-Kucha, Surdewala, Alkanerik, Magdewerne and Mayen villages, all on the Nigerian – Cameroonian border. Nwachukwu said the combined troops also tracked insurgents to Bokko, Daushe and Gava villages, where they attacked the fleeing insurgents and destroyed their ammunition. ××× The United Nations has expressed outrage at the abduction on Feb. 19, of 110 schoolgirls of Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe, by suspected Boko Haram terrorists. The Secretary-General, Mr Antonio Guterres, said he was gravely concerned over the incident and called for the immediate and unconditional release of all the girls. Guterres urged Nigerian authorities to swiftly bring those responsible for this dastardly act to justice and also reiterated the solidarity and support of the UN to the Nigerian Government and other affected countries in their fight against terrorism and violent extremism. Kleiman’s brother, Ira said that the total amount of Bitcoins is unknown but could be between 300,000 dollars and 1.1 million dollars. The family claims they are owed at least half of the Bitcoins mined by the two men, which currently worth about 11.6 billion dollars.