By Ismaila Chafe The National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr John Odigie-Oyegun, on Friday met with President Muhammadu Buhari, barely 24 hours after being accused of sabotaging reconciliation efforts in the party. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the party chairman, who met behind closed door with the president in the State House after the Friday prayers, declined comment on the outcome of the meeting. NAN reliably gathered that the duo deliberated on the “protest letter’’ submitted to the President by former Lagos governor Ahmed Tinubu, accusing Odigie-Oyegun of frustrating the activities of the party reconciliation committee. Buhari had, on Feb. 6, appointed Tinubu to lead an APC consultation, reconciliation and confidence building team toward improving cohesion in the party ahead of the general elections in 2019. Tinubu, in a letter of complaint to Odigie-Oyegun and copied to President Buhari, accused the party’s chairman of sabotaging his reconciliation efforts in the party. The letter, titled: “Actions and conduct weakening the party from APC: within”, was also copied to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senate President Bukola Saraki and House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara. Tinubu accused the APC Chairman of compounding the challenge of reconciliation by taking “improper unilateral decisions” on issues affecting national and state chapters. He also accused Odigie-Oyegun of delaying the release of information critical to the resolution of crises in state chapters. President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to lead the consultation, reconciliation and confidence building efforts toward improving cohesion within the All Progressives Congress (APC).  The assignment will involve resolving disagreements among party members, party leadership and political office holders in some states of the federation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reliably gathered that the Kano State APC crisis involving supporters of former Gov. Rabiu Kwakwanso and the serving Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, is one of the task of the Tinubu reconciliation committee. It would be recalled that the Presidency on Jan. 29 summoned Gov. Ganduje and Kwakwanso over the aborted Jan. 30 visit of the former governor to Kano to avert breakdown of law and order in the state. The governor, accompanied by two serving senators and two members of House of Representatives from the state met with the Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari at the Presidential Villa. Ganduje, however, declined to speak to State House correspondents after the closed door meeting. The Tinubu committee is also expected to reconcile other APC members in Kaduna, Zamfara, Oyo, Kogi and other states of the federation (NAN)