In today’s news, President Buhari to speak on 2019 re-election, institute discovers new breast cancer treatment.  1. The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors’ Forum, Gov. Rochas Okorocha of Imo, says President Muhammadu Buhari will soon address the nation on whether he will seek re-election in 2019. Okorocha stated this when he briefed State House correspondents after a closed-door meeting between the President and the APC governors on Thursday night. He said the president would also address the caucus of the APC on the matter.  2. Prof. Peter Onwualu, Coordinator Materials Science and Engineering at the African University of Science and Technology, says the institute has discovered a new treatment for the management of breast cancer. Onwualu said the institute will carry out further research to see the possibility of using the drug for the treatment of other types of cancers.  3. The EFCC, Kaduna zonal office, has recovered a total of N297million diverted by beneficiaries under the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anchor Borrowers Programme. The EFCC zonal office said the fund was disbursed by the Bank of Agriculture (BOA) in Kebbi and Kaduna. It pledged continued assistance to the Bank of Agriculture in the discharge of its statutory duties and urged the bank to ensure proper orientation of beneficiaries before disbursement of loans.  4. Four Nigerian journalists have been awarded 1,750 dollars prizes by the International Centre for Journalists (ICFJ) and the UN Foundation for their outstanding coverage of conflicts, flooding and desertification. Three of the journalists: Ochiaka Ugwu of People’s Daily Newspapers, Babatunde Okunlola from Royal FM and Kelechukwu Iruoma of Ripples Nigeria won 1,000, 500 and 250 dollars cash prices, respectively. They were among 40 Nigerian journalists who participated in a six-month training programme on Enhancing Climate and Migration Reporting in Washington, D.C.  5. The U.S. has condemned the abduction of scores of schoolgirls of Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe, by suspected Boko Haram terrorists. The Spokesperson of the U.S. Department of State, Ms Heather Nauert, said the U.S. was yet to get details about the abduction. Nauert said that the victims were girls who were simply seeking an education noting that the target of schools, markets and places of worship by the terrorists shows the brutality of terror organisations. (NAN)