Roger Federer won two awards, including the World Sportsman of the Year, while Serena Williams was named the World Sportswoman of the Year, at the 2018 Laureus World Sports Awards at the Salle des Etoiles in Monte Carlo, Monaco on Tuesday. Federer also won the World Comeback of the Year award and was congratulated by the International Tennis Federation:  Federer won his sixth sportsman award to add to a staggering list of achievements, according to  the awards’ official Twitter account: Among those Federer beat for the award was Cristiano Ronaldo, who fired Real Madrid to a third UEFA Champions League win in four seasons back in May. Knee surgery in 2016 led to Federer missing six months. Amazingly, he returned to win Wimbledon 2017 without dropping a set at age 35. The astonishing feat earned the Swiss master a 19th Grand Slam title. Since then, the Tennis legend also won the Miami Masters title, among others. Federer revealed his title-filled year had been the stuff of dreams after being presented with his comeback award. As for Williams, a seventh Australian Open title was part of her spectacular year. AS Roma lifer Francesco Totti won the Exceptional Achievement award after a glittering football career in the Italian capital. It was 2017 that marked the year the irrepressible attacking midfielder finally called time on his Roma career. The 40-year-old made his decision official in July when he accepted a position as a director at the club he served superbly for almost a quarter of a century. Among Totti’s most notable achievements was inspiring Roma to the Serie A title in the 2000/01 season. Mercedes won the team award following a Formula 1 season where Lewis Hamilton captured the individual World Championship. It marked the fourth time a Mercedes driver experienced the triumph, while the team as a whole was also rewarded with the Constructors World Championship. Here is the full list of winners
Sportsman of the Year: Roger Federer
Sportswomen of the Year: Serena Williams
Comeback of the Year: Roger Federer
Exceptional Achievement: Francesco Totti
World Action Sportsperson of the Year: Armel Le Cleac’h
Sport for Good: Active Communities Network
Team of the Year: Mercedes F1
World Breakthrough of the Year: Sergio Garcia
World Sportsperson of the Year with a Disability: Marcel Hug
Sporting Inspiration Award: J.J. Watt
Best Sporting Moment: Chapecoense (Eternal Champions)
Lifetime Achievement: Edwin Moses *Reported by Bleacherreport.com