Christian leaders in Jerusalem said that they would on Wednesday reopen the ancient Church of the Holy Sepulchre, closed since the weekend in protest at Israeli tax measures. The announcement came hours after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office said a “professional team” would be appointed to resolve the financial dispute. The closure — which seemed to be the longest since at least 1990 — has left thousands of pilgrims and tourists seeking to visit the site locked outside. Some have kneeled in front of its massive wooden doors to pray on the cobblestones of Jerusalem’s Old City. “We hereby announce that the Church of the Holy Sepulchre… will be reopened to the pilgrims tomorrow, February 28th, 2018 at 4:00 AM (0200 GMT),” said a joint statement by church leaders issued on Tuesday night. The church is built where Christians believe Jesus was crucified, buried and resurrected. Custody of it is shared by the Greek Orthodox, Armenian and Roman Catholic denominations. Tuesday’s statement was signed by senior clerics of the three faiths in the Holy Land. “We… give thanks to God for the statement released earlier today by Prime Minister Netanyahu and offer our gratitude to all those who have worked tirelessly to uphold the Christian presence in Jerusalem,” it said. Christian leaders are in part angry over attempts by Israeli authorities in Jerusalem to enforce tax collection on church-owned property they consider commercial, saying exemptions only apply to places of worship or religious teaching. Netanyahu’s office said the measures would be suspended pending discussions. Israeli Regional Cooperation Minister Tzachi Hanegbi will also look into the issue of land sales in Jerusalem by Christian bodies. During that time, a proposed law that Christian leaders say would allow Israel to expropriate church land is to be shelved, the statement said. An official of the Roman Catholic Custody of the Holy Land welcomed the prospect of talks with the Israeli authorities. “From the beginning we said that we have duties to have a dialogue, and not let ourselves be forced to make drastic decisions,” he told AFP. – ‘Dark period’ – Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat says the city is due 650 million shekels ($186 million/152 million euros) in uncollected taxes on church properties. He stresses the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and all other churches are exempt, with the changes only affecting establishments like “hotels, halls and businesses” owned by churches. Christian leaders say the measure jeopardises their ability to conduct their work, which also includes social services to those in need.