Popular entertainers Davido and Small Doctor are among the numerous artistes that won the 2018 Headies awards early on Sunday. While millionaire Davido won the award as Best Pop single and artist of the year, Small Doctor won the 2018 best street hop artiste. Others are MI- Best rap single; Teni- Rookie of the year; Reminisce- Best rap album. Others are – Innocent Idibia (2face) and Ayodeji Balogun (Wizkid). The awards on Saturday night, stretching into the early hours of Sunday were given at the 12th edition of HEADIES which took place at the Eko Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. NAN also reports that Headies award formerly known as the Hip Hop World Awards was established in 2006 by the Hip Hop World Magazine of Nigeria to recognise outstanding achievements in the Nigerian music industry. It usually features performances by established and promising artists. Wizkid received the best music video award, the best R and B pop album award and the viewers’ choice award for his song ” Come closer”. 2face had the best reggae dancehall single award for his song ” Holyholy”. Other winners are Mayorkun with next rated award; Omawumi- female best vocal performance; Praiz- male best vocal performance; Nasty C- Africa artiste of the year; Aramide- Best Alternative Song. Simi- Best recording of the year; Yemi Alade- Best Performer; Tiwa Savage- Best collabo; Kidominant- Producer of the year; MI- Lyricist on the roll. Lagos State and some companies were recognised as industry brand ambassadors. They were MTN, Globacom, Federal Inland Revenue Service, Nigerian Breweries, Pepsi, and Hennessey. The Headies Highest Winners: Wizkid 4:
Best Collabo
Best Music Video
Viewer’s Choice Award
Best Pop/RnB Album Simi 3
Album of the Year
Recording of the Year
Best RnB Song Davido 3
Song of the Year
Artiste of the Year
Best Pop Single *All the Winners: Best Recording of The Year Joromi – Simi Best Pop Single If – DavidO Producer of the Year Kidominant – Fall, Mama Best Reggae/DanceHall Single Holy Holy – 2Baba Best Rap Album El Hadj – Reminisce Best RnB/Pop Album Sounds From The Other Side – Wizkid Best Music Video Come Closer – Wizkid (DAPS) Best RnB Single Smile For Me – Simi Best Collaboration Malo – Tiwa Savage Ft. Wizkid Best Rap Single You Rappers Should Fix Up Your Lives – M.I. Best Vocal Performance (Male) Praiz – Folashade Best Vocal Performance (Female) Omawumi – Butterflies Next Rated Mayorkun HipHop World Revelation Reekado Banks Lyricist On The Roll You Rappers Should Fix Your Live – M.I. Best Street-Hop Artiste Small Doctor – Penalty Best Alternative Song Fun Mi Lowo Mi – Aramide Ft. Sound Sultan &amp; Koker Album of the Year Simisola – Simi Artiste Of The Year Davido Song Of the Year If – Davido African Artiste of the Year Nasty C Headies Viewer’s Choice Come Closer – Wizkid Best Performer Yemi Alade Rookie of the Year Teni Brand Supporter MTN Pepsi Glo Hennessy FIRS Nigeria Breweries Lagos State Headies Hall of Fame Chris Ubosi Special Recognition Kaffy 