By Salisu Sani-Idris Barr. Chioma Ifemenam, National Welfare Officer and the Commonwealth Youth Ambassador, has called for youth inclusiveness and participation in governance. Ifemenam, who represented the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) at the recently concluded Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in United Kingdom, made the call at a reception organized for her by the youth on Tuesday in Abuja. She appealed to the Federal Government to finance youth development programmes through a recognised and organised body like NYCN. The ambassador advocated for the reduction of youth unemployment through the support and promotion of youth entrepreneurship and innovation, which was capable of addressing insecurity and youth restiveness among others. Ifemenam also called for youth inclusiveness and participation in governance, saying that Nigeria was blessed with youth leaders capable of changing the narrative of the country positively. She promised to use the experience acquired at the forum to synergies with the Federal, State and Local Governments through the NYCN to ensure youth participation in governance processes. Ifemenam, however, appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to recall and assent to Peace Corps of Nigeria Bill, saying “ if the Peace Corps Bill is signed into law the organisation is capable of generating employment. According to her, the bill had a direct bearing to the youth constituency. Ifemenam commended the leadership of the council for the reception accorded her and the opportunity provided to represent them at the forum. She pledged to follow up and partner with the relevant organs to ensure that Nigeria participate in the implementation of the resolutions reached at the Commonwealth youths forum. Ifemena said that Nigeria must participate in building a more prosperous future, a more secure future, a more sustainable future and a fair future for its teeming youths as defined in the Sustainable Development Goals. Earlier, the President, National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Malam Murtala Garba, commended Amb. Chioma Ifemenam, for excellently representing the Nigerian youths. The President, represented by Director Media and Publicity, NYCN, Malam Gambo Jagindi, said the council was proud of Ifemena because she represented over 80 million Nigerian youths excellently during the Commonwealth meeting. He explained that Ifemena was nominated to represent the youth at the forum due to her commitment, dedication and passion in championing the welfare and progress of the Nigerian youth. 