President Muhammadu Buhari met with U.S. President Donald J. Trump at the White House on Monday April 30, to activate his activities for the week. Both leaders discussed countering terrorism, trade and boosting the fight against corruption. At a joint press conference with Trump, President Buhari thanked the U.S. for supporting Nigeria’s fight against terrorism and also appreciated his host for the agreement to sell 12 Super Tucano A-29 warplanes and weapons to Nigeria. Later on Monday, the President met with Chief Executive Officers of six American agricultural companies and their Nigerian counterparts including Aliko Dangote and John Coumantaros. According to a statement by Garba Shehu, Senior Special Assistant to the President, Media and Publicity, the President urged youths to maximise opportunities in the nation’s agriculture sector. In another business meeting same day, President Buhari met with Nigerian businessmen and their American counterparts from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Corporate Council on Africa, (CCA.) Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, also started his busy schedule at the Vice President’s wing on Monday, April 30, when he chaired the meeting of the Economic Management Team held at the conference room of the Office of the Vice President. The Vice President, later same day, met with the chief executives of the Bank of Industry, Development Bank of Nigeria and the Nigerian Export Import (NEXIM) Bank where they discussed issues relating to development and financing for MSMEs in the country. On Tuesday, May 1, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo attended the May Day celebrations at the Eagles Square, Abuja as a Special Guest of Honour. In his address to labour, the Vice President said the Federal and state governments will continue to work together to improve the conditions of workers nationwide. He said government was genuinely concerned about the welfare of the Nigerian worker hence its intervention through the bailout funds. According Prof. Osinbajo, “The President’s concern for workers is not theoretical or rhetorical, but one borne out of experience, and respect for the sweat of the working classes. “This is why we evolved mechanisms to bail out all the 36 states of the Federation, to the tune of N1.91Trillion so far including Paris Club repayments, in recognition of the shortfalls in their finances arising in particular from the oil shocks of 2015/2016. “We have extended this support regardless of party affiliation, to enable the States settle the backlog of arrears and salaries and pensions of workers. “At the inauguration of the National Economic Council in 2015, President Buhari publicly declared that our administration will support every State, because poverty is no respecter of ethnic group, religion or party affiliation.” Later on Tuesday, the Vice President delivered the keynote address at the annual Platform Nigeria, an event organised by the Covenant Place, Lagos. In his address, Prof. Osinbajo celebrated the success stories of young Nigerians outside politics and spoke about how they were boldly building the nation. He called for the building of the Nigerian bridge that connects ethnicities, dialects, religion, politics and generations. On Wednesday, May 2, President Buhari pledged an unfettered environment for the media to do its work, saying while journalists in the country are free to criticise him, they must be fair and mindful of national interest, in doing so. In his message to commemorate the World Press Freedom Day observed every May 3, the President noted that responsibility is reciprocal, and journalists should be wary of fairness, justice and national interest at all times. Still on Wednesday, May 2, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo presided over the weekly Federal Executive Council meeting held at the State House council chambers. After the meeting, the Vice President received on a courtesy visit, the steering committee of the Social Investment Programme. The Vice President also attended the meeting of the Presidential Communication Team held in his office. President Buhari returned to Abuja on Thursday, May 3, after travelling to the United States for a meeting with President Donald Trump. Prior to his arrival in Abuja, the President had a “technical stopover” in London from Washington D.C. en route Nigeria, according to Mallam Garba Shehu. Also on Thursday, May 3, Vice President Osinbajo, attended the 58th Annual Delegates Meeting and Scientific Conference of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), held at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. In his remarks, the Vice President said the presidency applauded the National Assembly’s support of its policy to spend 1% of its budget on healthcare. He said the Buhari administration remained committed to improving healthcare in Nigeria. “I welcome the Senate’s endorsement and support disclosed today by the Senate President, of FG’s earlier determined policy to spend 1% of our budget on healthcare in line with the National Health Act. The policy reflects the Buhari administration’s resolve to improve healthcare. “Having identified healthcare reform as one of the major drivers of Nigeria’s economic development, and under the able leadership of the Hon. Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, our administration has prioritized basic healthcare delivery services for Nigerians, through the revitalization of primary healthcare and retooled the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency for better performance.” Later on Thursday, the Vice President proceeded to Ondo State for a 2-day working visit. On arrival in Akure, the Ondo state capital, the Vice President paid a courtesy visit to the Palace of the Deji of Akure before moving to the Dome Events Centre, where he launched the state’s edition of the National Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Clinics. In his address at the event, Prof. Osinbajo said the Buhari-led government would spend Nigeria’s money on the people and not steal it as it was done in the past. According to him, “the difference between us and any previous government is that we are not going to steal the money. We spend the money on the people, that’s the difference. “We will continue to invest in states through the Social Investment Programme. But as our income increases, we intend to improve and continue to expand.” The Vice President was hosted to a State Banquet later in the evening. On Friday, May 4, President Buhari received the outgoing United Arab Emirate Ambassador to Nigeria, Mohammed Mahmood Al Mahmood at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. After the audience with the ambassador, the President left Abuja for Daura, Katsina State, where he is expected to participate in the ward congress of his party the All Progressives Congress (APC), scheduled to hold nationwide on Saturday, May 5. For the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, he continued with the programme lined up for his visit to Ondo state on Friday, May 4. He visited the Alagbaka Estate Primary School where he witnessed the feeding of school children under the Home Grown School Feeding Programme. The Vice President also interacted with N-Power teachers at the school, having experienced, first hand, the teaching of the pupils using the device provided for the N-Power teachers across the country. The Vice President also visited the Ishikan market in Akure where he saw the installation of solar power for the market under the Energizing Markets initiative of the Federal Government. The Vice President interacted with some shop owners who barred their minds about the implementation of the programme. The Vice President ended the visit with a live interview transmitted on the state-owned broadcast (radio and TV) stations. He spoke to the people about programmes being implemented by the present Federal administration and areas of collaboration with the state government. He proceeded to Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Camp in Ogun state for the monthly Holy Ghost service. In Daura, on Saturday, May 5, President Buhari participated in the ward congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking at the ward congress held at Bayagida Model Primary School, Daura, Katsina State, President Buhari said his driving force for seeking public office was to serve the people, improve lives and not for frivolity or personal ambition. Prof. Osinbajo was not left out in the ward congresses of the APC on Saturday, May 5, as he joined other party leaders and faithful in Lagos, specifically at his Agungi ward in Eti Osa Local Government Area to elect their ward leaders. He was also at the Wards A & B – Agungi Ajiran, and Ikate Elegusi in the LGA respectively. The Vice President assured all Nigerians that they would share in the benefits that would accrue as the Buhari Administration continues to serve. According to him, “We came to find out how things are going, to hear the good news that all our ward congresses are going on very peacefully without any rancour and problems. “We are confident in our party and the reason we are confident is that we are not thieves, we are different and we want to serve the people and the people know we want to serve them. “And with everything we have, we would serve the people. We will make sure we provide everything necessary. “I pray that everyone of us will see and benefit in the goodness of this land. None of us will be left behind. We will all see the blessings together.” Read also: Presidential Villa roundup for April 22 to April 28, 2018