The second day of the grand opening of The Dome Abuja, was a night of fun and razzmatazz for Abuja revelers as Popular Nigerian afro high life musician, Flavour Nabania graced the stage with his scintillating performance. The activities lined up for the second day Saturday, included a Celebrity Bowling Challenge predominantly made up of the ex-Big Brother housemates, with Rico Swarvey winning the bowling challenge with a return ticket from Turkish Airline for a trip to any part of the world. Some of the BBNaija housemates at the event included Miracle, BBNaija Winner, Tobi, Alex, Ahneeka, Vandora, Princess and Nina. Rico Swarvey revealed to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that Bowling is one of his favorite recreational activities and urged more cities to create more entertainment and recreational centers like the Dome. “We need to take leisure and relaxation to another level. This Dome project is a good step, the bowling alley is great, and more cities need to develop amusement arcades”. The event was part of a 3-day opening ceremony that kicked off on Friday with The Vice President Yemi Osibanjo cutting the ribbon to mark the opening of The Dome. Other artistes including Falz and Dj Spinall were some of the biggest name from the entertainment industry to lead the Saturday lineups. They thrilled the Dome crowd who were eager to see the reopening of the renowned entertainment center for some time now. Flavour and his band rocked the stage with “Nwa Baby”, “Adamma” and “Oyi” from his Uplifted album, also thrilling the crowd with Ijele from his 2017 album titled “Ijele The Traveller” among other famous afro beat sounds. Tomi Babajide a reveler, expressed her delight at the reopening of the entertainment center in Abuja. “For me, having flavor on the weekend line up was really befitting, Dome entertainment center is a special place for relaxation in Abuja, I am glad it has been reopened”. Chisom Ajua told NAN that the entertainment center is the best the city has at the moment. “The bowling alley is standard, having different forms of activities in one location is good for weekend relaxation’. The talented DJ Spinall showcased his talents with his DJ set while Big Brother Naija “Double Wahala” winner Miracle enjoyed a night of Afro beat songs with fellow housemates Tobi, Alex Rico and Vandora on stage. The event continues on Sunday with famous actress Funke Akindele performing along side DJ Jimmy Jatt.