By Gloria Omang/Ijeoma Okigbo It was a new dawn for Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), FCT Chapter as Chidoka Ndubueze of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) on Thursday emerged as the new Chairman. Ndubueze, who was the Vice-Chairman since 2012, was elected unopposed at an elective congress held in Abuja and will lead the Association for the next three years. The position of the Secretary-General was the only office contested for at the election, and it was won by Ikenna Okonkwo of Blueprint Newspaper. He won with 57 votes to defeat Chris Onokpegu of the Armed Forces Radio who obtained 34 votes out of the 91 votes for grabs. Four others became Executive Committee members after being elected unopposed. Tolulope Oguntimehin of Independent Television (ITV) became Vice-Chairman, while Leadership Newspaper’s Salifu Usman emerged as Treasurer. Joel Ajayi of Aljazirah Newspaper was elected Financial Secretary, while Albert Akota of Peoples’ Daily Newspaper emerged as Assistant Secretary. Ndubueze, in his acceptance speech after being sworn-in by a legal practitioner, Kabir Babatunde, promised to promote synergy between members and the FCT sports administrators. “While I am thankful for your support and trust for this new administration, I assure you that we will always maintain a synergy between the sports administrators in the FCT and the Association. “We will also concentrate on improving members’ welfare. The issue of welfare has been a challenge since I joined SWAN in 2002. “We will try our best to ensure that the issue of welfare will be improved. But this is going to be a collective effort,” he said. The SWAN Vice-President, North-Central Zone, Danmusa Mohammed, who supervised the election, enjoined members to support the new executive committee. He also advised the new Executive Committee members to strive to perform better than their predecessors. “Members of FCT SWAN showed a high sense of maturity throughout the election. “Also, the leadership we have now is an experienced one as some of the members have served in the outgoing Executive Committtee. We hope and advise that they should surpass the efforts of the immediate-past executive committee members. “To the rest of us as members, we should ensure total support for our leaders, so that our Association can move forward,” Mohammed, who was assisted by a National Ex-Officio Member, Alloy Chukwuemeka, said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the elective congress was also attended by the SWAN National President, Honour Sirawoo, the Secretary-General, Olawale Alabi, and Zonal Secretary (North-Central), Jude Opara.