  As the nationwide ward congresses of All Progressives Congress (APC) kicks off, President Muhammadu Buhari, was on Saturday at the Bayajidda Model Nursery and Primary school, Daura in Kastina state venue of the exercise in his ward. The President was in the company of the State Governor, Mr. Aminu Masari, stakeholders of Sarkin Yara, a ward he belongs to. Contestants, delegates, officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other dignitaries are also on the ground to participate in the process. The incumbent chairman of the Sarkin Yara A ward, Aliyu Mani and 25 other officials were returned unopposed following a consensus reached under a voice voting system. The voting was facilitated by the Ward’s Elders Forum. Buhari has urged the party executives elected in his sarkin Yara A electoral ward to discharge their responsibilities with fear of God and in accordance with the party constitution. He said throughout his political career he has been a loyal party member who respect the rules and the regulations of his political party, stressing I called on you to fear God in whatever you do as we would transit to the next world and account for our deeds before our creator. “I have contested for this office and lost three times consecutively but  eventually I won glory be to God. He said his administration was determined to upholding constitutional provisions and the rule of law, stressing we need to play politics with decency and decorum. Earlier in his remarks Gov Aminu Masari,commended the president for finding time to attend the congress in spite of his tight schedule. He described the presence of the president was a clear demonstration of his commitments to party rules and the regulations, “adding we would continue to emulate this examplary attitude of yours  sir . He called on Nigerians to continue to pray for peace and stability of the nation as well as respect the constituted athourities for socioeconomic progress of the nation. Alhaji Ahmad El-Marzuq, the commissioner and Attorney -General Katsina state said the congress was adopted by a unanimous  consensus without hitches. He said the constitution of the all progressive congress APC has adopted conduct of congresses either by direct election or consensus  stressing ours had always being rancour free. Marzuq, lauded the efforts of the president in ensuring strict adherence to party rules, “adding we expect the remaining wards to borrow a leaf from us. Malam Aliyu Mani the incumbent ward chairman was returned as the chairman, Ibrahim Halilu as deputy chairman, and Rufai Aliyu as secretary. The presidential ward of sarkin Yara A comprise of 15 polling units and 26 party executives who returned elected by consensus. Buhari arrived in Daura, his hometown, on Friday to participate in his party’s congress. In Ebonyi state, Chief Eze Nwachukwu, the Ebonyi Acting Chairman, APC, assured party faithful that conduct of the party’s wards congresses would be open, peaceful and credible. The chairman spoke on Saturday morning in Abakaliki at a meeting with party faithful, stakeholders and the electoral committee team from the APC national secretariat, Abuja . Nwachukwu promised that the exercise would be open, peaceful and devoid of manipulation. He called for support and cooperation of members to make the exercise hitch – free, noting that the success of the local government and state congresses were largely dependant on the outcome of the wards congresses. In Kano State, the party said the congresses would hold in the 484 wards. Malam Ibrahim Sarina, Secretary of APC said that all necessary arrangements had been concluded for the successful conduct of the exercise. “We are very ready. Everything has been put in place and members of the party’s National Election Committee are already in Kano,’’ he said. Sarina said that each ward would produce 26 executive members from the position of Chairman to Ex-officio at the end of the exercise. The secretary said the party had resolved to conduct the congress through consensus. “We have decided that the congress be conducted through consensus but where it is not possible, people are free to do it through open ballot system,’’ he explained. The Gombe State Police Command deployed enough police men to monitor and ensure a hitch free congresses. PSP Mary Malum, the command Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday that the deployment was part of measures put in place to provide security during the exercise. She advised the party officials and members to play the game according to the rules and not to take law in to their hands. “All measures have been put in place and currently our men were deployed to ensure a hitch free exercise. “I am advising the public to be law abiding and be good citizens, the politicians should also play the game according to the rules so that there will be a hitch free exercise”, she said.