By Francis Onyeukwu No fewer than one hundred youths on the platform of Anambra State Youth Organisation on Friday stage a solidarity march in support of the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the youths carrying placards with various inscriptions marched through Amawbia by-pass and adjourning streets before ending at Anambra Police Headquarters, Amawbia. Some of the placards which the demonstrators carried read; “Senate public is watching’’, “ Senate should leave the working IGP alone’’, “ IGP not enemy of democracy and IGP Ibrahim Idris is competent.’’ Spokesman of the organisation, Mr. Anthony Ogbugu, said the decision to hold the demonstration was to correct the wrong impression Nigeria Senate was creating of the IGP. “It is wrong for the senate to declare that IGP is unfit to hold public office when Mr Idris is doing a lot to salvage the problem of insecurity in the country. “Since the appointment of Mr Idris as the IGP, it is on record that he has led the police to arrest more than 500 members of Boko Haram and have stabilized security situation in many parts of the country including Anambra’’, he said. Ogbugo who added that youth’s decision to condemn the call by the senator appealed to the senators to first look into the jumbo salary which they collect monthly if they really meant well for the nation. He noted that the power to hire and fire lies with the boss and in the case of the IGP Mr President, saying the senate should follow due process in handling matters. “If the IGP acts wrongly, let his boss punish him, let the members of national assembly focus on enactment of good laws that would help to address the mirage of challenges facing the Nigeria people’’, Ogbugu said. Mr Chris Owolabi, Assistant Commissioner of Police, who responded on behalf of Mr Umar Garba, the Anambra State Commissioner of Police, thanked the demonstrators for their peaceful conduct. Owolabi assured the youths that their message would be communicated to the appropriate authorities.(NAN)