 By Ariwodola Idowu/Ado-Ekiti Outgoing Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Mr Abdullahi Chafe, has warned  dozens of  aspirants in the All Progressives Congress(APC) not to engage in acts capable of causing violence while conducting their governorship primaries today. Chafe gave the advice at a valedictory news conference on Friday in Ado-Ekiti. The APC  will pick its torchbearer for the July 14 governorship poll in the primary. No fewer than 33  aspirants will slug it out to win the ticket. Among the aspirants were former governor, Dr.Kayode Fayemi, now the minister of mines and steel;  Senator Babafemi Ojudu, political adviser to President Buhari, Senator Ayo Arise and Mr. Opeyemi Bamidele, a former commissioner in Lagos. Mr Taiwo Olatubosun, the state Publicity Secretary of the party, said the 33 were the candidates who scaled through the party screening. “We have four categories of delegates for the primaries namely; delegates from each of the 117 wards of the state, those from the 16 Local Government Areas (LGAs), as well as members of the State Executive.There are also statutory ‎delegates,’’ he said. Ensuring that primary was held peacefully will be Chafe’s last major duty in the state because he will retire by 12 midnight today. He said his successor will also  maintain law and order before, during and after the governorship poll. He disclosed that all the party leaders in the state had not only signed a pact to be of good behaviour, they had also made commitments to control their followers’ emotions. “All the parties and their aspirants have pledged to be of good conduct and they also agreed to accept the outcome of the results in good fate. “I believe that as matured men and women who can be trusted, they will want to stand by this solemn promise. “We in the police do not want anybody, no matter how high or low to bring trouble to Ekiti,” he said. Chafe, who joined the Nigerian Police Force on Feb. 2,1986, said that he was happy to retire without blemish and urged other officers and men to emulate his track records. “My message to officers and men is that they should be wary of politicians, especially at a period such as we are in Ekiti. “They must shun all manner of advances that can either truncate their career midway or dent their image as public officers “From my personal experience about life, it is not how fast you can run to amass wealth that will make you rich but how you are able to systematically go about it will give you the peace you desire in life,” he said.