President Muhammadu Buhari received Governor Rochas Okorochas of Imo State in his country home, Daura Katsina State on Sunday May 6 to kick-start his activities for the week. Following his closed-door meeting with President Buhari, Okorocha told journalists that as the Progressive Governors Chairman, it was his duty to update the country’s number one citizen on the outcome of the ward congresses conducted by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) across the country. The Imo governor was quoted as warning all members of the party against what he described as “funny politics”, which he said played out during the ward congresses held on May 5, across the country. On Monday, May 7, President Buhari returned to Abuja from Daura, Katsina State. Prior to his departure, the President visited the palace of the Katsina Emirate Council, led by the  Alhaji  Abdulmumini Kabir, to commiserate with them on the death of the Chief Imam of Katsina Juma’at Mosque, Liman Lawal, who died on Sunday. The President who was accompanied by Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State told family members of the late Chief Imam to take solace in the fact the religious leader lived a fulfilled and God-fearing life, praying that God will grant the deceased rest, and comfort his family. On his return to Abuja, the President received the Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. At the end of the closed-door meeting, the duo told State House Correspondents that the President briefed them on his trip to the United States last week where he met with President Donald Trump. The meeting which was at the invitation of the President also discussed the 2018 budget, which is yet to be passed into law, six months after it was presented to them by the President. Other issues discussed with the President, according to the Principal Officers of the National Assembly, were the recent invasion of the National Assembly, the refusal of the Inspector-General of Police to honour a Senate invitation, the arrest and alleged maltreatment of Senator Dino Melaye by members of the Nigeria police. Later on Monday, the Senior Special Assistant to the President, Media & Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu issued a statement saying the President has approved the establishment of a new Battalion of the Nigerian Army, as well as a new Police Area Command, in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State, as part of measures to scale up the security response to the banditry affecting the area. The statement said the President strongly condemned the latest massacre of innocent Nigerians in the area, adding that he is “deeply outraged by this unwarranted, unprovoked and reckless destruction of lives by bandits who belong to the lowest level of civilization”. “I feel the pains and devastation of the families of the victims, and this administration will do everything possible to ensure we defeat these enemies of humanity.” Same day, Shehu, in a statement responded to a petition by the Peoples Democratic Party addressed to the United Nations Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, accusing President Muhammadu Buhari of gross human rights violation. Shehu said the petition confirmed the opposition party “as a bad loser, desperate for another chance after they were kicked out for failing the nation and its people.” On Monday evening, Shehu announced that President Buhari will undertake a four-day trip to the United Kingdom to see his doctor. He said the President will return on Saturday, May 12. Tuesday, May 8, saw President Buhari receive Letters of Credence from the Netherlands Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Robert J. Petri, High Commissioner of Botswana, Mr Pule Mphothwe and the Ambassador of Lebanon, Houssam Diab at the State House. In his remarks, while receiving the Letter of Credence from the Dutch Ambassador, President Buhari reiterated the need for sustained financial, technical and capacity building support from the international community to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change in the country. He said Nigeria would continue to vigorously pursue the replenishment of the Lake Chad Basin, which has dried up to 10 percent of its original size. On Wednesday, May 9, President Buhari eulogised the late Kano State Islamic scholar and billionaire businessman, Alhaji Isyaku Rabiu, as an epitome of scholarship and entrepreneurship. In a condolence message to the Rabiu’s family, the President said, “No tribute can do justice to the amazing virtues of Isyaku Rabiu in view of his vast contributions to scholarship, industrial investments and development in the country.” President Buhari condoled with the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Christian community on Friday, May 11, on the death of General Secretary, Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev (Dr) Musa Asake. The President, while commiserating with the family of the late cleric, prayed that God Almighty will comfort all those who mourn the departed, and grant his soul eternal rest. Later in the day, President Buhari returned to Abuja from his medical visit to London, 24 hours ahead of his scheduled return. The President was received at the Presidential Wing of Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport by the Minister of the FCT and some of his senior aides. Read more: Presidential Villa roundup for April 29 to May 5, 2018