 By Edith Ike-Eboh Participants at the Civil  Society Organisations (CSOs)Forum in Abidjan said that Africa’s industrialisation would be achieved with proper entrepreneurship drive. Some of the Participants who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) on Tuesday  said that proper entrepreneurship model should be adopted in the region. Ms Theresa Diarra, Executive Assistant GCCI, an NGo said that children should be introduced to enterprenuership at an early stage in life. “The model of industrialisation that will help to  develop Africa and sustain it is the one that recognizes education. “ Entrepreneurship is a major factor to industrialisation revolution we are talking about in Africa,African Children are not educated about  it . “So, for us to achieve this, the young ones must be  introduced to it through education , so that they can own it and sustain it, ” she said. Another Participant Julius  Yingaing said that Education remained the best way to achieve any positive result. He said that as organisation building capacity of undergraduates in Cameroon, the major challenge young people face was lack of direction and support to drive their ideas. “We observed that a lot of undergraduates have various initiatives that can drive industrialisation revolution we are talking about today. “The major thing we found out is that lecturers lack the expertise  and back home parents also do not have form of support that will drive the entrepreneur spirit in most youths. “A lot needs to be done in this direction,” he said He added that industrialising African was long overdue adding that both the CSOs and developmental institutions must work hard to ensure it was achieved. Also, Mrs Gilda Monjare, Gender Adviser and Entrepreneur said that the African Development Bank  (AfDB) initiative targeting at industrialising Africa was commendable. She advised that apart from catching the young through education, AfDB should look for successful projects on industrialisation across the world and ensure its replicated in Africa. She advised that the bank must find a way to connect to the educational system and use academic research works to solve problems. “Many Countries in Africa have the same problem, so in trying to industrialise Africa, all aspect must be looked into to ensure inclusive result,” she said She called for improved capacity building to help develop good ideas that were kept in the incubators. In her comments, Ms Jennifer Blanke, Vice-President, Agriculture, Human and Social Development said that the bank had sort collaboration of the CSOs to ensure effective and inclusive development in the region. He said that the bank would achieve its goal if the CSOs hold governments, Legislature accountable. “Industrailise Africa is one of the high five projects of the bank and which its wants to achieve is very important “. The bank works according to country’s request. so, if the CSOs get to make governments to make good policies, it will help to drive the industrialisation revolution in the region,” he said (NAN)  