The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, has expressed support for the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors in Nigeria (CIFIA). Malami made his stance known when Dr Victoria Enape, CIFIA President, led a team from the institute on a courtesy visit to him in Abuja. The AGF was also conferred with fellow of the institute. The AGF said he optimistic that President Muhammadu Buhari would assent the CIFIA Bill when it got to his table as the institute’s activities were in in tandem with the anti-corruption fight of Buhari’s administration. “This, indeed, CIFIA is an association that the ministry will be keen and exceptionally interested in partnering with in terms of collaboration, cooperation and working together fundamentally on three plans. “ CIFIA is an institute that is rooted in the fight against corruption; it is an institute that can help the Federal Government in tackling the menace of insurgency and it can help in rooting out elements of fraud in bureaucratic processes and administration. “To that extent, we believe that collaboration with CIFIA will eventually pay off by way of engaging the services being provided by Federal Government and reduce corruption in governance. “In relation to the pending bill, it the desire of the Federal Government, to see to the passage of the bill because of its immense contribution to breaking to associated leakages inherent in our system. “The Federal Government will be readily available to support the bill and see to its assent in the context of national interest,’’ he said. Malami said that as far as the CIFIA Bill was concerned, the institute and the Federal Government shared things in common. He expressed appreciation for the fellowship award, saying it would boost his commitment to what CIFIA stood for as an institute. The AGF also pledged to work towards issuing a letter of collaboration and endorsement to CIFIA as well as signing a Memorandum of Understanding with the institute on training the staff of the Ministry. Enape, had earlier in her remark, said that CIFIA had been desirous of identifying with the AGF because of sterling performance. “We are the one of the world’s leading provider of anti-fraud organization offering training and education, we offer opportunity for energetic and practical professionals to learn the basic that go beyond knowledge of accounting, auditing and finance. “CIFIA strives to promote the need for transparency in advanced audit through certification, training, conferences and seminars in forensic auditing field. “We carry out specialised fraud investigation by utilising using specialised forensic audit tools and equipment. “Forensic auditors are mainly professionals from accounting background, lawyers, bankers, criminologists, cyber security experts among others. “It is not limited to accountants; that is why we are unique.  Our training cuts across all these areas. “It cuts across investigation, auditing and accounting; it integrates accounting, auditing and investigative skills in resolving fraud cases. “It encompasses litigation support, witness testimony, presentation of expert document that shows fraud- that is why this ministry if very important to the institute, ‘’ she said. She had also solicited the support of the AGF on the CIFIA Bill which had gone through public hearing, collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, letter of endorsement and training agreement on forensic and investigative auditing. A 3-day Training/Induction of Professors and Doctors of Accounting/Other Executives into CIFIA will end on Saturday in Abuja.     