By Edith Ike-Eboh The African Development Bank (AfDB) in collaboration with the Korean Government with the support of the Ivorian government have helped in the growing small businesses in  two small communities  in Yamuossoukro, Coted’Ivoire. The project named Saemaul Undong translates in English as “The New Community movement” has three principle of diligence, self-help and cooperation. The two  beneficiary villages were Natta and Ngbekro  and were selected because they met the criteria required for the project. The criteria include, access to road, willingness of the people to own the projects and ability to collaborate with each other to enlarge businesses. About 2,961 people benefited from the project in the two communities  and it has helped to transform their lives, brought development in the community as well as reduced rural urban migration. Apart from loans given to farmers, artisans , weavers among others, they were trained on how to manage their business and in modern day agriculture. The communities were supported with health facilities, Nursery and Primary schools, Town halls among others. The project was Korean model of business development that  helped in economic development in their country. Below are some photos of the project in the communities she got five hundred dollars loan and repaid in four months, she has doubled her farm and employed  six permanent staff and about five daily workers that gets daily five dollar stipend. Another Tomato farmer  Beneficiary from Ngbekro Village Mr Kauassi Nigorai got 400 dollar loan and has been able to expand his business and currently harvest about 15 tones of tomatoes every season. He is also able to send his children to school. Also, weavers who got support and have expanded their production The project provided the community, with schools, Health facilities, Market and town hall. A nursery school, most families are able to send their children to school The Project has been able to transform Ngbekro village as some of  the beneficiaries  are currently building modern day houses and living better lives. The New Ngbekro Village The bank and its partners advocate that the Saemaul Undong project should be replicated in the rural communities for African to  reduce poverty, rural urban migration and  ensure economic development (NAN)  