Nabilu Balarabe Residents of Jalingo, Taraba, on Monday expressed concern over collapsed Globacom and MTN masts as a result of Saturday’s devastating rainstorm in the town. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Globacom mast, which is just few meters from that of MTN, fell on an eatery and crushed to death three chefs during the Saturday’s rainstorm. The residents told newsmen in Jalingo that there was an urgent need for the telecom operators to repair the masts to prevent them from collapsing on people and property. Mr Hammajoda Audu, who owns a boutique opposite Globacom mast at Donga Road, said that the mast was bent by the rainstorm. “We are leaving in fear. As you can see the top of the tower is clearly bent by that fierce rainstorm on Saturday. “Since the incident, we have not seen any decisive action taken by the company to repair it, which means that God forbid, in the event of another heavy rainfall, the tower may collapse on us. “I am calling on Glo to urgently repair this installation to save lives and property,” he said. Mr Nasiru Sintali, a resident of Jauro Boto near State Specialists Hospital in Jalingo, also complained that since the devastating rainstorm, the MTN mast opposite the hospital had been shaking whenever there was a strong wind. “Even yesterday, the whole area was deserted by the people around because of fear that the strong wind will collapse the mast, but they later returned,” he said. Sintali urged MTN to immediately repair the installation in order to avert another tragedy in the area. When contacted, Mrs Henrietta Murey, the Team Leader, MTN Jalingo, expressed doubt over the claim, saying that “perhaps it is just phobia considering what happened in the area on Saturday’’. She, however, assured that forensic analysis would be conducted on the mast to determine its worthiness or otherwise. Also, a competent source in Glo office, Jalingo, told NAN that the office was aware that masts at Donga Road and some parts of Jalingo had some challenges caused by rainstorm. He said that Glo was currently conducting “integrity test “on all the masts in the area with a view to ensuring that they were in good condition and posed no threat to lives and property. The source debunked an allegation that the masts had structural problems, saying the collapse of the mast was purely caused by natural disaster which also affected assets of other organisations. He said that Glo had visited and condoled with the families of the deceased and promised to do all the needful to support them.